
Date and Time: Monday, August 26, 2019 8:51:00 AM EDT
Job Number: 95794480
Documents (10)
1. Justice Dept. Newsletter to Immigration Judges Included an Extremist Blog Post
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
2. Immigration at Its Limit? Not for Employers
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
3. An Heiress, Immigration and the Environment
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
4. Shift Against Immigration Lifted a Young Firebrand
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
5. How Stephen Miller Seized the Moment to Battle Immigration
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
6. Deficit, Immigration, Mongol Derby: Your Wednesday Evening Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
7. Bankrolling the Anti-Immigration Movement
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
8. Playing Trump's Immigration Game
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
9. In Her Own Words: The Woman Who Bankrolled the Anti-Immigration Movement
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
10. On Immigration, the Democrats Are Playing Into Trump’s Hands
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times


Justice Dept. Newsletter to Immigration Judges Included an Extremist Blog Post
The New York Times
August 24, 2019 Saturday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18
Length: 965 words
Byline: By CHRISTINE HAUSER
Body


A Justice Department newsletter that is distributed to federal immigration judges and other employees contained a blog post this week from an extremist group that included an anti-Semitic reference, a national union for the judges said.
The briefing is sent out daily by the department's Executive Office for Immigration Review, which is responsible for adjudicating the nation's immigration cases. 
  On Monday, the newsletter summarized and linked to a post from VDare, a website that regularly publishes white nationalists, according to the 440-member union, the National Association of Immigration Judges. The Southern Poverty Law Center classifies VDare as an anti-immigration hate website.
  The VDare post described the Justice Department's recent efforts to decertify the judges' union. It published photographs of two judges, one of Iranian descent and one of Pakistani descent, and referred to them as ''kritarch.''
  That term has historically been used in a non-pejorative way to describe ''rule by judges,'' but more recently it has been co-opted by white nationalists and anti-Semitic extremists, according to the Anti-Defamation League.
  On Thursday, Judge A. Ashley Tabaddor, the union's president and the judge of Iranian descent who was pictured in the VDare post, wrote to James McHenry, the director of the immigration review office, to protest the newsletter's inclusion of the post, saying it ''directly attacks sitting immigration judges with racial and ethnically tinged slurs.''
  ''VDare's use of the term in a pejorative manner casts Jewish history in a negative light as an anti-Semitic trope of Jews seeking power and control,'' Judge Tabaddor wrote in the letter, referring to ''kritarch.''
  Kathryn Mattingly, a spokeswoman for the immigration review office, could not be reached on Friday. She was quoted by BuzzFeed News, which first reported on the newsletter on Thursday, as saying that the news briefings are compiled by an outside contractor and that ''the blog post should not have been included.''
  ''The Department of Justice condemns anti-Semitism in the strongest terms,'' she said.
  The judges' union did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Friday. But on Thursday, its parent union, the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers, also sharply criticized the Justice Department.
  ''It is shocking and outrageous that a vile, racist attack against distinguished jurists was linked and distributed from an official U.S. government publication,'' the union's president, Paul Shearon, said in a statement. ''The Department of Justice is supposed to enforce our nation's laws against ethnic, racial and religious discrimination, not fan the flames of such hatred.''
  Mr. Shearon also urged the Justice Department to apologize to everyone who had received the newsletter, to take steps to ensure no such material would be distributed again in an official federal government publication and to provide appropriate safety and security measures for immigration judges.
  The VDare post also included a photograph of Judge Amiena Khan, the executive vice president of the immigration judges' union, which has publicly criticized the use of a quota system in immigration court and other attempts to speed up proceedings.
  Judge Tabaddor and Judge Khan have spoken out repeatedly against what they say is an attempt to turn immigration judges from neutral arbiters of the law into law enforcement agents enacting the White House's policies. They have called for immigration judges to be independent of the Justice Department.
  Aryeh Tuchman, associate director of the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism, said that ''kritarchy'' had long been used to describe ''rule by judges.''
  ''There are examples throughout the course of history of societies ruled by judges, with one of the more well-known examples being the land of Israel as described in the Biblical books of Joshua and Judges,'' he said in an emailed statement on Friday.
  But he added that it appeared that extremists, ''mainly confined to the racist, anti-immigrant site VDare, have co-opted the term to refer to liberal American judges as 'kritarchs.'''
  That reference is used to convey their ''displeasure and belief that these judges are acting independently and without accountability to a form of government -- mainly as it pertains to social issues, specifically immigration,'' Mr. Tuchman said.
  ''Many of the extremists on VDare who use this term are in fact anti-Semites, and they may intentionally be using 'kritarch' as a way to express their anti-Semitism, but on its own, the term is not self-evidently anti-Semitic,'' he said.
  The VDare post on Monday also used the word Lügenpresse, which was used by the Nazis to describe what they called the ''lying press.''
  On Thursday, after the uproar over the news briefing began, VDare wrote on its website that the word ''kritarch'' meant only ''rule by judges'' and that it was ''strange'' that Judge Tabaddor believed the term was meant to be anti-Semitic.
  Steven Mains, the chief executive of TECHmis, the company that compiles the news briefings for the immigration review office, said in an interview on Friday that the briefings were cobbled together by his company's editors from a variety of news sources using key words provided by the department. The 40 or more final choices are not vetted by the Justice Department before being sent to the list of recipients, he said.
  ''We look at the whole universe of news and provide anything of interest to the Department of Justice,'' he said. ''They are a very sophisticated audience and they can see if there is an agenda. We don't censor the news.''
  This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.         

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/23/us/justice-department-vdare-anti-semitic.html

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document


Immigration at Its Limit? Not for Employers
The New York Times 
August 22, 2019 Thursday 13:40 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; economy
Length: 1826 words
Byline: Patricia Cohen
Highlight: Restaurants, farms and other businesses say they need more foreign workers. And economic growth may depend on it, given lower birthrates.
Body


MIAMI — After finishing a particularly satisfying dinner at a Coral Gables restaurant with his wife, Pedro Martinez quietly slipped around to the back alley where the kitchen is.
“Whatever you’re making, I’ll give you a raise,” Mr. Martinez whispered when the back door swung open. An executive at 50 Eggs, a restaurant group based in Miami, he is always ready with a stack of business cards for occasions like this.
More immigrants have streamed into South Floridathan to most American cities, and for decades, employers have relied on them to wash dishes, put up drywall and care for grandmothers. Still, there are not enough to fill Miami’s relentless boomtown demand for workers.
As unemployment rates nationwide have sunk to record lows, filching workers — from kitchens and construction sites, warehouses and Walmarts, truck cabs and nursing homes — has become routine. In cities like Miami that are magnets for immigrants, newcomers have filled some job openings, but employers across several industries and states insist that many more are needed for their businesses to function, let alone grow.
The economic impact is just one facet of an immigration debate that vibrates with political and moral import, challenging ideas about America’s identity and culture. But it is also one that can be examined more dispassionately by looking at the numbers.
And the numbers, most economists say, indicate that there is plenty of room. Immigrants make the country richer, they argue.
“Without immigration, we shrink as a nation,” said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who has advised Republican presidential candidates and now leads the conservative American Action Forum.
That’s because growth is driven by two ingredients: the size of the work force and how efficiently those workers produce things. And both are creeping well behind the postwar average.
One reason is that Americans are having fewer babies. Birthrates fell last year to a three-decade low, ensuring that the next generation of native-born Americans will be smaller than the current one.
The result is fewer workers and consumers; fewer houses to build, phones to sell and cars to buy; fewer gains all around. Turn away new immigrants, and the picture darkens considerably.
Using census data, the investment company the Blackstone Group estimates that without immigration, the working-age population between 25 and 64 years old would drop by 17 million by 2035.
“We really need immigrants,” Byron R. Wien, vice chairman of Blackstone’s Private Wealth Solutions group, said during the company’s quarterly webcast last month. “If we have a shrinking population, it’s going to be tough to have rising G.D.P.,” or gross domestic product.
At the moment, there are 7.3 million job openings nationwide and            six million people unemployed. That gap is expected to widen as the number of retirees grows faster than the number of new workers.
“In every market that we’re in, we’re dealing with staffing shortages,” said Pilar Carvajal, the founder and chief executive of Innovation Senior Management, which manages seven assisted-living centers in Florida. Entry-level workers in the area make from $10 to $12 an hour — the same as a dishwasher and slightly more than a farmworker.
She has turned away business, declining to manage properties in Fort Myers. “It’s a staffing void,” she confided during a visit to a memory care center in Broward County. Employment agencies won’t even return phone calls.
“Thank God we have immigrants coming in,” she said. “We’re hiring them as fast as they come.”
More than a million immigrants enter the United States every year, most of them through authorized channels. Altogether, there are more than            44 million immigrants, or 13.6 percent of the population. The share is significantly higher than it was in 1970, but below the peak in the 1890s, when millions of Europeans crossed the Atlantic Ocean.
President Trump has publicly resisted the argument that the nation needs more immigrants. “Our country is full,” he said during a visit to the border this spring. “We can’t take any more.”
But Mr. Trump’s proposals have at times deviated from his statements. In May, he proposed revamping legal immigration, without reducing the overall level, by giving preference to immigrants with skills, education and job offers, instead of people with family ties.
There is no way to figure out precisely how many more immigrants the national economy could easily absorb without a lot of guessing. Powerful forces like technology, globalization and the decline in union strength can heave economies around willy-nilly, benefiting some workers and hurting others, regardless of immigration.
Despite a decade-long expansion and a low official jobless rate, the income gap is widening, and many Americans struggle to find stable employment and middle-class wages.
A common complaint is that immigrants snatch jobs from native-born Americans, particularly those who didn’t finish high school. This group is already most likely to earn the minimum wage or be out of work.
There is scattershot evidence that in some places immigrants can press down wages at the lowest end of the income scale, but that is not typical.
An economy, after all, is not a snapshot frozen in time, but a moving picture. Immigrants take jobs, but they also help create jobs — by generating demand for goods and services like groceries, haircuts and homes.
More often, economists say, immigrants complement American workers. More educated women, for example, may decide to work if the availability of immigrants makes child care more affordable.
And many tasks that most people previously did themselves — mowing lawns, polishing nails, picking up takeout, driving — are now contracted out because there is labor to do them.
“The middle class is afforded some luxuries that only the affluent could afford in the past because of immigration,” said Muzaffar Chishti, director of the Migration Policy Institute’s office at New York University School of Law. “If people are prepared to adjust their needs, we don’t need as many immigrants.”
Choices about how to provide essential services and compensate workers are not just economic but political as well, Mr. Chishti pointed out: Should the government spend more on training, offer workers incentives to relocate, subsidize elder care, protect workers’ bargaining power or help build affordable housing so that low-wage workers can cover basic expenses?
What happens now is that migrants tend to fill jobs that citizens don’t want to take for the pay offered. And they are also much more willing to pick up and move to a new city or state for a job.
Significantly higher wages might attract more native-born workers to the service jobs that many immigrants occupy — in health care, housekeeping or hothouses. But if labor costs raise the price of tomatoes or a manicure, people will purchase fewer of them.
Push up costs too much, and some jobs might disappear or move to other countries.
Over all, income and production would shrink.
In Houston, the economy has averaged 2.5 percent annual growth over the last decade. Maintaining that growth requires immigration, the Center for Houston’s Future, a research group associated with the Greater Houston Partnership, concluded.
In industries like health care, hospitality, construction and technology, there are simply not enough workers to sustain the growth rate. During the last decade, the Houston area’s native-born work force grew 1.6 percent annually while the number of documented immigrants jumped 5 percent. Undocumented workers increased 0.4 percent.
To many workers, complaints about a labor shortage ring hollow when companies are earning record profits and giving executives multimillion-dollar paychecks while offering workers meager raises.
Several businesses, though, have much slimmer profits. Nationwide, for example, restaurant profit margins average 3 to 5 percent.
At one of 50 Eggs’ busiest restaurants in Miami, Yardbird Southern Table and Bar, roughly 80 percent of the staff members were born abroad.
“The idea that legal immigrants are taking jobs away from residents of the U.S. is just not reality,” said John Kunkel, the founder and chief executive of 50 Eggs, which also operates Yardbird locations in Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Dallas and Singapore. “That’s the armchair view of somebody who doesn’t run a business.”
Seasonal industries, like agriculture and resorts, are particularly dependent on migrant workers. Several Trump Organization properties have obtained temporary visas to employ dozens of foreign-born workers.
This past tomato season, DiMare Fresh, a family-owned distributor with farms in Florida and California, had scores of unfilled jobs.
At its main packing house in Homestead, about an hour south of Miami, the company was able to fill only 165 of the 280 open jobs. Another center in Ruskin, near Tampa, lost many of its workers when Amazon opened a fulfillment center a few minutes away.
“Amazon has sucked up all the labor,” said Paul DiMare, the chief executive. He said his business could not afford to offer year-round employment or benefits.
The company is experimenting with new technology — a machine to automatically stack 25-pound boxes of tomatoes on pallets, and sensors to sort tomatoes by size and color when there aren’t enough graders, usually older Haitian women at this site, to eyeball the produce as it loops along conveyor belts.
Automation, rather than higher wages, is often the response to labor shortages. When immigration restrictions in the mid-1960s dried up the pool of Mexican farm laborers, California growers started using           mechanical harvesters to pick tomatoes.
“Firms adjust,” said Jay Shambaugh, director of the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution. “If you have a shortage of low-skill workers, you’ll get more kiosks at McDonald’s where you punch in your order.”
Tomato season in Florida doesn’t resume until November. In the meantime, Mr. DiMare shakes his head when asked about detentions at the border and deportation raids.
“They want to send all these people back,” he said. “Who the hell is going to do all this work?”
Follow Patricia Cohen on Twitter: @PatcohenNYT. 
PHOTOS: About 80 percent of the workers at Yardbird Southern Table and Bar in Miami were born abroad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT MCINTYRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); There aren’t enough native-born workers to fill the ranks of booming industries like construction.; DiMare Fresh and other distributors rely on migrant workers to harvest crops such as tomatoes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (A14)
Related Articles
• Short of Workers, U.S. Builders and Farmers Crave More Immigrants
• U.S. Wants to Allow More Foreign Workers While Also Restricting Immigration
• America’s Biggest Economic Challenge May Be Demographic Decline
• 8 Million People Are Working Illegally in the U.S. Here’s Why That’s Unlikely to Change.

Load-Date: August 24, 2019


End of Document


An Heiress, Immigration and the Environment
The New York Times
August 22, 2019 Thursday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26; LETTER
Length: 338 words
Body


To the Editor:
Re ''An Heiress Intent on Closing America's Doors'' (front page, Aug. 15): 
  Cordelia Scaife May, the benefactor of the Colcom Foundation, loved, and her philanthropy reached, all people. She would have opposed any form of racial bias. She came to the population issue through an environmental ethic.
  Balancing ourselves with ecosystems remains an all-defining challenge for humanity. The planet continues to add a million people (births minus deaths) every four days. Some would prefer to ignore that reality. Mr. Trump's environmental policies are antithetical to her environmental concerns.
  Your article covers her foundation's charitable contributions to reduce immigration from the current high level. These donations are intended to uphold the dignity of labor with a living wage. High immigration enables corporate interests to drive down the American wage.
  The more interesting story isn't how much the Colcom Foundation is contributing, but how its funding has been dwarfed by big business and corporate lobbyists. Corporate lobbying is intended to undercut American wages by maintaining access to foreign job seekers.
  The Colcom Foundation supports public education for an informed civic dialogue about the long-term sustainable level of immigration. According to Pew Research, in just five decades, the United States population of 329 million will increase by 117 million; immigration will account for 103 million. Is this a good idea?
  The topic would seem to merit a discussion in a deliberative democracy. The criteria may include the dignity of labor, water resources for the 40 states with impending shortages, infrastructure, greenhouse gas emissions and so on. People of good will should be able to reach a consensus on this public policy
  The foundation insists that this conversation not be marred by racial bias. The starting point is to respect immigrants as honorable people and fellow citizens.
  John F. RohePittsburghThe writer is vice president for philanthropy at the Colcom Foundation.

Load-Date: August 22, 2019


End of Document


Shift Against Immigration Lifted a Young Firebrand
The New York Times
August 18, 2019 Sunday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1
Length: 4674 words
Byline: By JASON DePARLE; Michael D. Shear contributed reporting, and Kitty Bennett contributed research.
Body


WASHINGTON -- When historians try to explain how opponents of immigration captured the Republican Party, they may turn to the spring of 2007, when President George W. Bush threw his waning powers behind a legalization plan and conservative populists buried it in scorn.
Mr. Bush was so taken aback, he said he worried about America ''losing its soul,'' and immigration politics have never been the same. 
  That spring was significant for another reason, too: An intense young man with wary, hooded eyes and fiercely anti-immigrant views graduated from college and began a meteoric rise as a Republican operative. With the timing of a screenplay, the man and the moment converged.
  Stephen Miller was 22 and looking for work in Washington. He lacked government experience but had media appearances on talk radio and Fox News and a history of pushing causes like ''Islamo-Fascism Awareness Week.'' A first-term congresswoman from Minnesota offered him a job interview and discovered they were reading the same book: a polemic warning that Muslim immigration could mean ''the end of the world as we know it.''
  By the end of the interview, Representative Michele Bachmann had a new press secretary. And a dozen years later, Mr. Miller, now a senior adviser to President Trump, is presiding over one of the most fervent attacks on immigration in American history.
  The story of Mr. Miller's rise has been told with a focus on his pugnacity and paradoxes. Known more for his enemies than his friends, he is a conservative firebrand from liberal Santa Monica, Calif., and a descendant of refugees who is seeking to eliminate refugee programs. He is a Duke graduate in bespoke suits who rails against the perfidy of so-called elites. Among those who have questioned his moral fitness are his uncle, his childhood rabbi and 3,400 fellow Duke alumni.
  Less attention has been paid to the forces that have abetted his rise and eroded Republican support for immigration -- forces Mr. Miller has personified and advanced in a career unusually reflective of its times.
  Rising fears of terrorism after the Sept. 11 attacks brought new calls to keep immigrants out. Declining need for industrial labor left fewer businesses clamoring to bring them in. A surge of migrants across the South stoked a backlash in the party's geographic base.
  Conservative media, once divided, turned against immigration, and immigration-reduction groups that had operated on the margins grew in numbers and sophistication. Abandoning calls for minority outreach, the Republican Party chose instead to energize its conservative white base -- heeding strategists who said the immigrant vote was not just a lost cause but an existential threat.
  Arriving in Washington as these forces coalesced, Mr. Miller rode the tailwinds with zeal and skill. Warning of terrorism and disturbed by multicultural change, he became the protégé of a Southern senator especially hostile to immigration, Jeff Sessions of Alabama. And he courted allies in the conservative media and immigration-restriction groups.
  Mr. Miller, who declined to comment for this article, affects the air of a lone wolf -- guarded, strident, purposefully provocative. But he has been shaped by the movement whose ideas and lieutenants he helped install across the government as he consolidated a kind of power unusual for a presidential aide and unique in the Trump White House.
  ''I don't agree with his policy on reducing legal immigration, but I'm in awe of how he's been able to impact this one issue,'' said Cesar Conda, who battled Mr. Miller on Capitol Hill as an aide to Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. ''He's got speech writing, he's got policy, he's got his own little congressional-relations operation, he's got allies whom he's helped place across the government.''
  ''Years ago, the restrictionist movement was a ragtag group'' with no strong ties to either party, he added. Mr. Miller ''embodies their rise into the G.O.P. mainstream.''
  Country and Party in Motion
  The story that has defined Mr. Miller's life began two decades before his birth, when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed a 1965 law ending quotas that chose immigrants based on their national origin and heavily favored white people from Northern Europe. Although Mr. Johnson called the new law a largely symbolic measure that would neither increase immigrants' numbers nor alter their ethnic mix, it did both on a vast scale -- raising the foreign-born share of the population to near-record highs and setting the United States on course for non-Hispanic whites to become a minority of the population.
  Opposition initially came from the left, especially from environmentalists worried about population growth.
  The first major immigration-control group, the Federation for American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, was founded in 1979 by Dr. John Tanton, a Michigan ophthalmologist and Sierra Club member, with funding from Cordelia Scaife May, an heiress to the Mellon banking fortune. Mindful of the bigotry in earlier anti-immigration movements, Dr. Tanton vowed to keep it ''centrist/liberal in political orientation.''
  [Newly unearthed personal writings by Cordelia Scaife May reveal why she dedicated her fortune to the cause.]
  But his arguments about environmental harm and wage competition found little traction in a Democratic Party eager to court minorities. By the mid-1980s, Dr. Tanton was making the racial arguments he had pledged to avoid, decrying the ''Latin onslaught'' and insisting on the need for ''a European-American majority, and a clear one at that.''
  At the time, the Republican Party was divided on immigration. While cultural conservatives were wary of rapid demographic change, businesses wanted cheap labor and Cold Warriors embraced anti-Communist refugees, including large waves of Cubans and Vietnamese. Running for president, a conservative as definitional as Ronald Reagan hailed ''millions of immigrants from every corner of the earth'' as a sign that God had made America a ''city on a hill.''
  But by the 1990s, the Cold War had ended, and globalization was sending manufacturing abroad. The business wing of the Republican Party, its main pro-immigrant faction, had less need for foreign workers. ''It's not that the business lobby became anti-immigration; it's just that they cared a lot less,'' said Margaret Peters, a political scientist at the University of California, Los Angeles.
  Not least among the forces shaping the debate was immigration itself: It accelerated and spread to the South, with the number of unauthorized immigrants growing especially fast.
  In 1986, President Reagan signed a compromise law that gave legal status to nearly three million people while adding new penalties to curb flows of illegal immigrants. But enforcement proved weak, and the unauthorized population reached a record 12 million. Restrictionists, feeling betrayed, swore never to allow another ''amnesty.''
  After a Republican backlash in the 1990s led more immigrants to vote for Democrats, Mr. Bush ran in 2000 as a pro-immigrant conservative. He saw Latinos as proto-Republican -- religious, entrepreneurial, family-oriented -- and was considering a legalization plan when the Sept. 11 attacks consumed his administration.
  By the time he returned to the issue in 2007, his party's skepticism toward legalization had hardened into implacable opposition. Amplified by talk radio, populist critics denounced his plan as ''shamnesty''; one called it an effort to make America a ''roach motel.'' Three-quarters of Republican senators opposed it.
  Just a year before, a rising Republican star had urged fellow conservatives not to abandon the party's Reaganite support for immigration.
  ''We are either going to prove that we believe in the ideas enshrined on the Statue of Liberty, or the American people will go looking elsewhere,'' said a congressman from Indiana, Mike Pence.
  But the party's shift proved decisive. Now, as vice president, Mr. Pence loyally defends the policies set by the president and Mr. Miller.
  Early Provocations
  The forces that pushed the Republican Party to the right also shaped Mr. Miller.
  Born in 1985, he grew up in a post-Cold War world where the acceptance of refugees was no longer seen as part of America's resistance to a hostile foreign power. Rapid ethnic change was shaping his world.
  The son of an affluent real estate investor, he entered high school in a self-consciously multicultural Santa Monica in 1999, just as California became a majority-minority state. At the start of his junior year, the attacks on Sept. 11 took nearly 3,000 lives.
  The terrorist plot was central to his political awakening. Complaining that school officials were insufficiently patriotic, Mr. Miller won an uphill fight to make them enforce regulations requiring the Pledge of Allegiance. ''Osama bin Laden would feel very welcome at Santa Monica High School,'' he wrote in 2002 in a local publication.
  Tellingly, he took his case to talk radio, as a frequent guest on ''The Larry Elder Show.'' It was a pattern Mr. Miller would repeat in subsequent years: airing hyperbolic claims of liberal treachery to conservative media allies. ''He loved being the provocative conservative behind liberal lines,'' said Ari Rosmarin, who was editor of the school newspaper and now works on criminal justice issues at the American Civil Liberties Union.
  Mr. Miller's main issue was assimilation, or what he saw as its failures. Writing in a local paper, he complained that ''a number of students lacked basic English skills,'' and his yearbook page quoted Theodore Roosevelt: ''There can be no fifty-fifty Americanism.'' The school paper ran a parody of him railing against ethnic food and demanding white bread and ''fine Virginia hams, just as the founding fathers used to enjoy on their bountiful plantations.''
  Classmates were often unsure whether his provocative views were sincere or a bid for attention. ''Am I the only one who is sick and tired of being told to pick up my trash when we have janitors who are paid to do it for us?'' he said in a speech for student government. A video shows him flashing a self-satisfied smile as classmates jeer.
  His uncle, Dr. David S. Glosser, a vocal critic, dismissed the antics as ''just an early adolescent desire to be noticed.''
  ''This talk of his philosophy seems disingenuous to me,'' he said in an interview. ''It's very seductive. All the sudden, you become the darling of media big shots and you get notoriety for it at home.''
  Some of Mr. Miller's Latino classmates say his comments made them feel personally attacked. In an interview, Jason Islas said Mr. Miller told him he was ending their friendship for reasons that included ''my Latino heritage.'' He added, ''I think he is a racist.''
  But with prominent allies like David Horowitz, a conservative author and organizer, Mr. Miller headed to Duke in 2003 with the beginnings of a national reputation.
  The defining issue of Mr. Miller's college career was the arrest, when he was a junior, of three white lacrosse players accused of raping a black stripper. Mr. Miller leaped to the players' defense, charging that administrators and faculty members saw them as emblems of white privilege and simply assumed they were guilty -- a case he made on the Fox News show ''The O'Reilly Factor,'' then the most-watched cable news program. He demanded that the school president be fired and the prosecutor jailed.
  The case collapsed. North Carolina's attorney general declared the players innocent, the prosecutor was disbarred for misconduct and the accuser was later convicted of murdering her boyfriend. For Mr. Miller, it was a two-part vindication -- reinforcing his conviction that liberal dogma about racial oppression was wrong and that his scorched-earth tactics were effective.
  In his last column for the Duke Chronicle before graduating, he called himself ''a deeply committed conservative who considers it his responsibility to do battle with the left.'' Then he headed for Washington.
  Taking the Fight to Congress
  Most of Mr. Miller's work for Mrs. Bachmann was unrelated to immigration. He wrote news releases about gas prices and fire department grants. But in February 2008, soon after he began the job, an undocumented immigrant in rural Minnesota, Olga Franco, drove through a stop sign and killed four children. Mrs. Bachmann appeared on ''The O'Reilly Factor,'' where she framed the issue as ''anarchy versus the rule of law.''
  Although Ms. Franco was convicted of vehicular homicide, the National Academy of Sciences, a group founded to convey academic consensus, has written that immigrants are ''much less likely than natives to commit crimes,'' and recent evidence suggests that the undocumented are no exception.
  But immigrant crime would be a running theme in Mr. Miller's career, and his emphasis on the issue borrowed from the broader restrictionist movement. To erode public support for immigration, FAIR maintains an online archive of ''serious crimes by illegal aliens.''
  In a 2008 congressional campaign debate, Mrs. Bachmann's opponent accused her of exploiting the tragedy, but she argued that unauthorized immigrants were ''bringing in diseases, bringing in drugs, bringing in violence'' -- language nearly identical to what Mr. Trump would later employ with Mr. Miller as his aide -- and she mustered a slender win.
  Soon after that election, Mr. Miller went to work for Representative John Shadegg of Arizona, and then quickly crossed the Capitol to work for Mr. Sessions. Perhaps the leading immigration foe in the Senate, Mr. Sessions was a product of a region where immigration had soared, largely in places unaccustomed to it. In two decades, the number of immigrants had grown fourfold in Alabama, Kentucky and South Carolina; fivefold in Arkansas, Georgia and Tennessee; and sixfold in North Carolina.
  Mr. Miller had opposed immigration mostly on cultural grounds, warning that newcomers were failing to learn English and endangering public safety. But Mr. Sessions emphasized economic concerns and what he called ''the real needs of working Americans,'' saying foreigners threatened their jobs and wages.
  As a defender of the working class, Mr. Miller had uncertain credentials. If his high school gibe about janitors was a joke, he returned to the issue at Duke. He mocked a campaign to have students thank their dorm-cleaning staff, arguing that employment was thanks enough. ''The janitors need a job, which we provide,'' he wrote.
  Striking a self-consciously elitist pose, he ridiculed calls for improved relations with working-class Durham, N.C. (''one of the last spots in America anyone would visit'') and asked for a student smoking lounge with ''plenty of mahogany and leather.''
  The impact of immigrants on jobs and wages is much debated -- they take jobs but make jobs, too. Most economists see greater downward pressure on wages coming from other forces, including the decline of the minimum wage (adjusted for inflation), weak unions, outsourcing and technological change.
  The National Academy of Sciences concluded in 2017 that immigration's overall effect on wages was ''very small,'' but added that ''some studies have found sizable negative short-run impacts for high school dropouts'' (who account for about 8 percent of the work force). Even among dropouts, some economists find the effects modest or nonexistent.
  One prominent scholar, the Harvard economist George Borjas, consistently finds negative impacts much larger than his peers do. He is the figure Mr. Miller most often cites.
  A Sign of Things to Come
  In moving to Mr. Sessions's Senate suite, Mr. Miller arrived at a crossroads for the restrictionist movement's people and ideas.
  As head of communications, Mr. Miller acquired a deep knowledge of the movement's players and policy goals. Others in the office would also go on to influential jobs in the Trump administration, not least Mr. Sessions himself, who as attorney general presided over a policy that separated thousands of young immigrant children from parents illegally crossing the border.
  Mr. Miller's minor moment of Capitol Hill renown stems from his efforts to defeat the so-called Gang of Eight bill, a bipartisan attempt to pair new enforcement measures with legalization for most of the country's 11 million undocumented immigrants, and to offer them a long path to citizenship.
  He opposed the bill with the same zeal that had inspired high school parodies, haranguing reporters into the night and earning a gadfly reputation.
  In retrospect, three elements of Mr. Miller's approach foreshadowed his future exercise of power. One was his rejection of the view that Republicans needed to court minorities. The Gang of Eight bill was born after the 2012 presidential race, in which the defeated Republican, Mitt Romney, lost the Latino vote by 44 points.
  No less a hard-liner than the Fox News host Sean Hannity called for legalizing most of the country's undocumented immigrants. ''Pathway to citizenship -- done,'' he said on his radio show. The Republican National Committee urged the party ''to empower and support ethnic minorities'' and ''champion comprehensive immigration reform,'' meaning legalization.
  Mr. Miller took the opposite view, which the party ultimately followed: Mobilize the white working-class base, among whom turnout had fallen.
  While Mr. Bush had seen Latinos as natural Republicans, most restrictionists saw them as an electoral threat. ''If four out of five Latinos are registering with the Democrats, perhaps less immigration would be in the interest of the Republican Party, no?'' wrote Jon Feere of the Center for Immigration Studies, a spinoff of FAIR. (Mr. Feere later joined the Trump administration as an immigration adviser. )
  A second feature of Mr. Miller's efforts was his symbiotic relationship with conservative media, especially online publications like Breitbart News.
  Lacking gatekeepers, the internet was a medium tailor-made for anti-establishment causes. Right-wing populism had long flourished on talk radio, but Breitbart, with few restrictions on space, could cover the issue in greater depth, bringing intense scrutiny to hot-button issues. And social media made articles easy to share.
  Breitbart ran three stories making the false charge, circulated by Mr. Sessions's staff, that the bill offered undocumented immigrants free cellphones.
  Mr. Miller and Breitbart worked together closely.
  ''Sessions: Special Interest, Extremist Groups Wrote Immigration Bill,'' claimed one Breitbart headline.
  ''Sessions: 'Tide is Beginning to Turn' Against Immigration Bill,'' announced another.
  A third element of Mr. Miller's work involved his alliance with outside groups, especially three that Dr. Tanton helped create and that received millions of dollars from Mrs. May's foundation. (Over a recent 12-year period alone, the foundation gave the Center for Immigration Studies $17.6 million, FAIR $56.7 million and NumbersUSA $58.2 million.)
  Once a lonely cause, restrictionism had grown into a mature movement -- an intellectual ecosystem of sorts -- with groups specializing in areas as diverse as litigation and voter mobilization.
  When Mr. Sessions claimed on a conference call that the Gang of Eight bill threatened jobs, an analyst from the Center for Immigration Studies was on the line to vouch for the data, and Breitbart covered it as news. When the center presented its journalism award, Mr. Miller was the speaker, and his first-name references to the Center's staff -- ''all the great work that Mark and Jessica and Steve are doing''-- made it clear that he felt among friends.
  Despite Mr. Sessions's opposition, the bill passed in the Democratic Senate in 2013. As it headed to the Republican House, Mr. Miller drafted a 30-page memo that Mr. Sessions shared with the House Republican caucus, urging members to oppose the bill on behalf of ''millions of struggling American workers.''
  House leaders were mulling how to proceed when, in June 2014, an obscure Virginia professor toppled the majority leader, Eric Cantor, in a Republican primary. Though vastly outspent, the newcomer, Dave Brat, prevailed in large part by attacking Mr. Cantor for being ''in cahoots'' with Democrats on immigration.
  ''The world just changed,'' Mr. Miller exulted the next day.
  Indeed, it had. Among those commenting in Breitbart was the ''conservative provocateur'' Donald J. Trump, who said the upset showed that the Republican establishment was at risk. ''Everybody is now vulnerable,'' he said.
  Circulating the article, Mr. Miller told friends that he wished Mr. Trump would run for president. When Mr. Trump did -- demanding a wall and a ban on Muslims entering the country -- Mr. Miller soon signed on.
  The Right Kind of Candidate
  Mr. Miller rose quickly on the small staff. A prolific writer and combative surrogate, he was the person most knowledgeable about the campaign's central issue, and he lavished Mr. Trump with praise. (The Trump candidacy, Mr. Miller said, had altered ''Western civilization.'') He also served as an ideological chaperone to a candidate given to sudden reversals of signature policies, a role Mr. Miller continues to play in the White House.
  Mr. Trump scored a coup by winning the support of some tech workers who, after being laid off by the Walt Disney Company, were forced to train foreign replacements admitted on temporary H-1B visas.
  The workers embodied Mr. Trump's larger argument that immigration hurt American employment. Yet days after appearing with them at a rally, Mr. Trump said in a televised debate that he would drop his plan to restrict the H-1B program.
  ''I'm changing, I'm changing,'' he told the stunned interviewer. ''I'm softening the position because we have to have talented people in this country.''
  Within hours, Mr. Trump reversed himself again, issuing a statement to assure his followers that he planned to ''end forever the use of H-1B as a cheap labor program.''
  Despite the president's public image as an unrelenting immigration foe, some restrictionist leaders view him as soft -- a businessman whose desire for labor will lead him to support more immigration. That unreliability, they say, makes Mr. Miller's presence especially important.
  ''If he weren't there, I'm pretty sure it'd be worse,'' said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies.
  To Remake America's Self-Image
  Mr. Miller now occupies a large West Wing office and has influence on virtually every element of immigration policy, from the words the president uses to the regulations he promulgates. Mr. Miller is a speechwriter, policy architect, personnel director, legislative aide, spokesman and strategist. At every step, he has pushed for the hardest line.
  When Mr. Trump wavered on his pledge to abolish protections for 800,000 so-called Dreamers -- people brought illegally to the United States as children -- Mr. Miller urged conservative states to threaten lawsuits. Mr. Trump then canceled the protections.
  When the president later mulled a deal to restore them, Mr. Miller stacked the negotiations with people who opposed the move, leading Mr. Trump to abandon compromise and rail against immigrants from ''shithole countries.''
  ''As long as Stephen Miller is in charge of negotiating immigration, we are going nowhere,'' complained Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who supported a deal.
  The Trump effort to curb immigration has played out amid so much chaos -- judicial setbacks, congressional defeats, personnel purges, Twitter wars -- that it can be hard to keep a running tally of its impact.
  The attempt to revoke Dreamer protections has been blocked in court. An effort to bar travelers from certain predominantly Muslim countries was struck down twice. The promised border wall has not been built. A campaign to deter illegal immigration by separating thousands of children from their mothers was abandoned amid blistering criticism, including some from the right.
  Still, Mr. Miller has left a big mark, in ways both obvious and obscure. After two highly publicized failures, he helped craft a travel ban that passed court muster. A fervent critic of refugee programs, he has helped cut annual admissions by about three-quarters since the end of the Obama administration.
  Writing in Politico, his uncle, Dr. Glosser, expressed an ''increasing horror'' at his nephew's hostility to refugees and noted that their ancestor, Wolf-Leib Glosser, arrived at Ellis Island after fleeing Russian pogroms. Had Mr. Miller's policies prevailed then, he wrote, the Glossers probably ''would have been murdered by the Nazis,'' as most in their village were.
  With less fanfare, Mr. Miller has guided a series of policy changes that critics liken to building an ''invisible wall.'' The Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group, counted more than 100 of them, noting that ''most have moved forward untouched.''
  The Trump administration quadrupled the number of work site investigations. It slowed the processing of temporary H-1B visas. It imposed new performance measures on immigration judges, to encourage faster deportations.
  Though Mr. Miller was often the driving force, many of these changes were longstanding goals of the restrictionist movement. ''He comes from a community of people who've been working on this, some of them, since the '90s,'' said Roy Beck, the president of NumbersUSA.
  Beyond the commas and clauses of government rules, Mr. Miller and Mr. Trump are trying to change something deeper: America's self-conception as a land of immigrants. Mr. Trump is the son of an immigrant. Two of the three women he married are immigrants. Four of his five children have an immigrant parent. Yet his immigration agency rewrote its mission statement to remove the phrase ''nation of immigrants.''
  Mr. Miller even took to the White House briefing room to offer a revisionist view of the Statue of Liberty. Like many in his movement, he argued it should not be seen as welcoming immigrants because it was originally built for a different purpose (to celebrate political freedom) and that the Emma Lazarus poem hailing the ''huddled masses'' carries little meaning because it was added later.
  The border wars intensified this spring as large numbers of Central American families sought asylum and Mr. Trump, with Mr. Miller urging him on, purged top officials from the Homeland Security Department, including the secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen; he argued they weren't doing enough to keep them out.
  But a quieter bureaucratic story may have revealed as much about Mr. Miller's priorities and bureaucratic skill.
  After long deliberation, the administration last week released a 217-page rule making it easier to deny admission or permanent residency to low-income immigrants deemed likely to receive public benefits. Unlike the border disputes, this so-called public charge rule affects only legal immigrants, since the unauthorized are already barred from most safety-net programs.
  Critics say the rule is already causing needy immigrants to forgo health care and nutritional aid. They call it a backdoor way of circumventing Congress and creating a new immigration system that admits fewer people, excludes the ''huddled masses,'' and favors Europeans over poorer Mexican and Central Americans.
  Mr. Miller was so eager to see the rule enacted, he helped push out a one-time ally, L. Francis Cissna, the head of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, for not moving fast enough.
  Mr. Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies argued that the rule would have only modest effects on immigrant numbers but praised Mr. Miller for asserting a principle. ''The point of immigration policy is to benefit Americans,'' he said, not ''strain the social safety net.''
  While the restrictionist movement had long taken that principle to heart, he said ''Stephen understood how to operationalize it.''

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/17/us/politics/stephen-miller-immigration-trump.html

Graphic

 
PHOTOS: Stephen Miller has the ear of the president on immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN SCHAFF/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Long vocal against immigration, Stephen Miller, at left above, has consolidated power over a single issue in a way that's unusual for a presidential aide and unique in the Trump White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
President Ronald Reagan signing the Immigration Reform and Control Act in 1986, which gave nearly three million people legal status. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN, VIA GETTY IMAGES)
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A22)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
President Trump at the United States-Mexico border in April with the Home- land Security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, left, shortly before she was pushed out. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) CHART: How Immigrants' Share of the U.S. Population Has Changed: Since the late 1960s, a surge of immigrants from Latin America and Asia has altered America's ethnic mix and has driven the foreign-born share of the population close to a record high. (Sources: U.S. Census
American Community Survey 2012-17) (CHART BY JULIETTE LOVE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MAPS: Where Immigrants' Population Share Has Grown the Most: Green areas had an increase in their share of foreign-born, with darker shading signifying a larger uptick. Blue areas had a decrease. (Sources: U.S. Census
 American Community Survey 2012-17) (MAPS BY JULIETTE LOVE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23)       

Load-Date: August 21, 2019


End of Document


How Stephen Miller Seized the Moment to Battle Immigration
The New York Times 
August 17, 2019 Saturday 14:36 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: US; politics
Length: 4800 words
Byline: Jason DeParle
Highlight: Behind Mr. Miller’s singular grip on the Trump anti-immigrant agenda are forces far bigger than his own hostility toward the foreign-born.
Body


WASHINGTON — When historians try to explain how opponents of immigration captured the Republican Party, they may turn to the spring of 2007, when President George W. Bush threw his waning powers behind a legalization plan and conservative populists buried it in scorn.
Mr. Bush was so taken aback, he said he worried about America “losing its soul,” and immigration politics have never been the same.
That spring was significant for another reason, too: An intense young man with wary, hooded eyes and fiercely anti-immigrant views graduated from college and began a meteoric rise as a Republican operative. With the timing of a screenplay, the man and the moment converged.
Stephen Miller was 22 and looking for work in Washington. He lacked government experience but had media appearances on talk radio and Fox News and a history of pushing causes like “Islamo-Fascism Awareness Week.” A first-term congresswoman from Minnesota offered him a job interview and discovered they were reading the same book: a polemic warning that Muslim immigration could mean “the end of the world as we know it.”
By the end of the interview, Representative Michele Bachmann had a new press secretary. And a dozen years later, Mr. Miller, now a senior adviser to President Trump, is presiding over one of the most fervent attacks on immigration in American history.
The story of Mr. Miller’s rise has been told with a focus on his pugnacity and paradoxes. Known more for his enemies than his friends, he is a conservative firebrand from liberal Santa Monica, Calif., and a descendant of refugees who is seeking to eliminate refugee programs. He is a Duke graduate in bespoke suits who rails against the perfidy of so-called elites. Among those who have questioned his moral fitness are his uncle, his childhood rabbi and 3,400 fellow Duke alumni.
Less attention has been paid to the forces that have abetted his rise and eroded Republican support for immigration — forces Mr. Miller has personified and advanced in a career unusually reflective of its times.
Rising fears of terrorism after the Sept. 11 attacks brought new calls to keep immigrants out. Declining need for industrial labor left fewer businesses clamoring to bring them in. A surge of migrants across the South stoked a backlash in the party’s geographic base.
Conservative media, once divided, turned against immigration, and immigration-reduction groups that had operated on the margins grew in numbers and sophistication. Abandoning calls for minority outreach, the Republican Party chose instead to energize its conservative white base — heeding strategists who said the immigrant vote was not just a lost cause but an existential threat.
Arriving in Washington as these forces coalesced, Mr. Miller rode the tailwinds with zeal and skill. Warning of terrorism and disturbed by multicultural change, he became the protégé of a Southern senator especially hostile to immigration, Jeff Sessions of Alabama. And he courted allies in the conservative media and immigration-restriction groups.
Mr. Miller, who declined to comment for this article, affects the air of a lone wolf — guarded, strident, purposefully provocative. But he has been shaped by the movement whose ideas and lieutenants he helped install across the government as he consolidated a kind of power unusual for a presidential aide and unique in the Trump White House.
“I don’t agree with his policy on reducing legal immigration, but I’m in awe of how he’s been able to impact this one issue,” said Cesar Conda, who battled Mr. Miller on Capitol Hill as an aide to Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. “He’s got speech writing, he’s got policy, he’s got his own little congressional-relations operation, he’s got allies whom he’s helped place across the government.”
“Years ago, the restrictionist movement was a ragtag group” with no strong ties to either party, he added. Mr. Miller “embodies their rise into the G.O.P. mainstream.”
Country and Party in Motion
The story that has defined Mr. Miller’s life began two decades before his birth, when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed a 1965 law ending quotas that chose immigrants based on their national origin and heavily favored white people from Northern Europe. Although Mr. Johnson called the new law a largely symbolic measure that would neither increase immigrants’ numbers nor alter their ethnic mix, it did both on a vast scale — raising the foreign-born share of the population to near-record highs and setting the United States on course for non-Hispanic whites to become a minority of the population.
Opposition initially came from the left, especially from environmentalists worried about population growth.
The first major immigration-control group, the Federation for American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, was founded in 1979 by Dr. John Tanton, a Michigan ophthalmologist and Sierra Club member,            with funding from Cordelia Scaife May, an heiress to the Mellon banking fortune. Mindful of the bigotry in earlier anti-immigration movements, Dr. Tanton vowed to keep it “centrist/liberal in political orientation.”
[Newly unearthed personal writings by Cordelia Scaife May reveal why she dedicated her fortune to the cause.]
But his arguments about environmental harm and wage competition found little traction in a Democratic Party eager to court minorities. By the mid-1980s, Dr. Tanton was making the racial arguments he had pledged to avoid, decrying the “Latin onslaught” and insisting on the need for “a European-American majority, and a clear one at that.”
At the time, the Republican Party was divided on immigration. While cultural conservatives were wary of rapid demographic change, businesses wanted cheap labor and Cold Warriors embraced anti-Communist refugees, including large waves of Cubans and Vietnamese. Running for president, a conservative as definitional as Ronald Reagan hailed “millions of immigrants from every corner of the earth” as a sign that God had made America a “city on a hill.”
But by the 1990s, the Cold War had ended, and globalization was sending manufacturing abroad. The business wing of the Republican Party, its main pro-immigrant faction, had less need for foreign workers. “It’s not that the business lobby became anti-immigration; it’s just that they cared a lot less,” said Margaret Peters, a political scientist at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Not least among the forces shaping the debate was immigration itself: It accelerated and spread to the South, with the number of unauthorized immigrants growing especially fast.
In 1986, President Reagan signed a compromise law that gave legal status to nearly three million people while adding new penalties to curb flows of illegal immigrants. But enforcement proved weak, and the unauthorized population reached a record 12 million. Restrictionists, feeling betrayed, swore never to allow another “amnesty.”
After a Republican backlash in the 1990s led more immigrants to vote for Democrats, Mr. Bush ran in 2000 as a pro-immigrant conservative. He saw Latinos as proto-Republican — religious, entrepreneurial, family-oriented — and was considering a legalization plan when the Sept. 11 attacks consumed his administration.
By the time he returned to the issue in 2007, his party’s skepticism toward legalization had hardened into implacable opposition. Amplified by talk radio, populist critics denounced his plan as “shamnesty”; one called it an effort to make America a “roach motel.” Three-quarters of Republican senators opposed it.
Just a year before, a rising Republican star had urged fellow conservatives not to abandon the party’s Reaganite support for immigration.
“We are either going to prove that we believe in the ideas enshrined on the Statue of Liberty, or the American people will go looking elsewhere,” said a congressman from Indiana, Mike Pence.
But the party’s shift proved decisive. Now, as vice president, Mr. Pence loyally defends the policies set by the president and Mr. Miller.
Early Provocations
The forces that pushed the Republican Party to the right also shaped Mr. Miller.
Born in 1985, he grew up in a post-Cold War world where the acceptance of refugees was no longer seen as part of America’s resistance to a hostile foreign power. Rapid ethnic change was shaping his world.
The son of an affluent real estate investor, he entered high school in a self-consciously multicultural Santa Monica in 1999, just as California became a majority-minority state. At the start of his junior year, the attacks on Sept. 11 took nearly 3,000 lives.
The terrorist plot was central to his political awakening. Complaining that school officials were insufficiently patriotic, Mr. Miller won an uphill fight to make them enforce regulations requiring the Pledge of Allegiance. “Osama bin Laden would feel very welcome at Santa Monica High School,” he wrote in 2002 in a local publication.
Tellingly, he took his case to talk radio, as a frequent guest on “The Larry Elder Show.” It was a pattern Mr. Miller would repeat in subsequent years: airing hyperbolic claims of liberal treachery to conservative media allies. “He loved being the provocative conservative behind liberal lines,” said Ari Rosmarin, who was editor of the school newspaper and now works on criminal justice issues at the American Civil Liberties Union.
Mr. Miller’s main issue was assimilation, or what he saw as its failures. Writing in a local paper, he complained that “a number of students lacked basic English skills,” and his yearbook page quoted Theodore Roosevelt: “There can be no fifty-fifty Americanism.” The school paper ran a parody of him railing against ethnic food and demanding white bread and “fine Virginia hams, just as the founding fathers used to enjoy on their bountiful plantations.”
Classmates were often unsure whether his provocative views were sincere or a bid for attention. “Am I the only one who is sick and tired of being told to pick up my trash when we have janitors who are paid to do it for us?” he said in a speech for student government. A video shows him flashing a self-satisfied smile as classmates jeer.
His uncle, Dr. David S. Glosser, a vocal critic, dismissed the antics as “just an early adolescent desire to be noticed.”
“This talk of his philosophy seems disingenuous to me,” he said in an interview. “It’s very seductive. All the sudden, you become the darling of media big shots and you get notoriety for it at home.”
Some of Mr. Miller’s Latino classmates say his comments made them feel personally attacked. In an interview, Jason Islas said Mr. Miller told him he was ending their friendship for reasons that included “my Latino heritage.” He added, “I think he is a racist.”
But with prominent allies like David Horowitz, a conservative author and organizer, Mr. Miller headed to Duke in 2003 with the beginnings of a national reputation.
The defining issue of Mr. Miller’s college career was the arrest, when he was a junior, of three white lacrosse players accused of raping a black stripper. Mr. Miller leaped to the players’ defense, charging that administrators and faculty members saw them as emblems of white privilege and simply assumed they were guilty — a case he made on the Fox News show “The O’Reilly Factor,” then the most-watched cable news program. He demanded that the school president be fired and the prosecutor jailed.
The case collapsed. North Carolina’s attorney general declared the players innocent, the prosecutor was disbarred for misconduct and the accuser was later convicted of murdering her boyfriend. For Mr. Miller, it was a two-part vindication — reinforcing his conviction that liberal dogma about racial oppression was wrong and that his scorched-earth tactics were effective.
In his last column for the Duke Chronicle before graduating, he called himself “a deeply committed conservative who considers it his responsibility to do battle with the left.” Then he headed for Washington.
Taking the Fight to Congress
Most of Mr. Miller’s work for Mrs. Bachmann was unrelated to immigration. He wrote news releases about gas prices and fire department grants. But in February 2008, soon after he began the job, an undocumented immigrant in rural Minnesota, Olga Franco, drove through a stop sign and killed four children. Mrs. Bachmann appeared on “The O’Reilly Factor,” where she framed the issue as “anarchy versus the rule of law.”
Although Ms. Franco was convicted of vehicular homicide, the National Academy of Sciences, a group founded to convey academic consensus, has written that immigrants are “much less likely than natives to commit crimes,” and recent evidence suggests that the undocumented are no exception.
But immigrant crime would be a running theme in Mr. Miller’s career, and his emphasis on the issue borrowed from the broader restrictionist movement. To erode public support for immigration, FAIR maintains an online archive of “serious crimes by illegal aliens.”
In a 2008 congressional campaign debate, Mrs. Bachmann’s opponent accused her of exploiting the tragedy, but she argued that unauthorized immigrants were “bringing in diseases, bringing in drugs, bringing in violence” — language nearly identical to what Mr. Trump would later employ with Mr. Miller as his aide — and she mustered a slender win.
Soon after that election, Mr. Miller went to work for Representative John Shadegg of Arizona, and then quickly crossed the Capitol to work for Mr. Sessions. Perhaps the leading immigration foe in the Senate, Mr. Sessions was a product of a region where immigration had soared, largely in places unaccustomed to it. In two decades, the number of immigrants had grown fourfold in Alabama, Kentucky and South Carolina; fivefold in Arkansas, Georgia and Tennessee; and sixfold in North Carolina.
Mr. Miller had opposed immigration mostly on cultural grounds, warning that newcomers were failing to learn English and endangering public safety. But Mr. Sessions emphasized economic concerns and what he called “the real needs of working Americans,” saying foreigners threatened their jobs and wages.
As a defender of the working class, Mr. Miller had uncertain credentials. If his high school gibe about janitors was a joke, he returned to the issue at Duke. He mocked a campaign to have students thank their dorm-cleaning staff, arguing that employment was thanks enough. “The janitors need a job, which we provide,” he wrote.
Striking a self-consciously elitist pose, he ridiculed calls for improved relations with working-class Durham, N.C. (“one of the last spots in America anyone would visit”) and asked for a student smoking lounge with “plenty of mahogany and leather.”
The impact of immigrants on jobs and wages is much debated — they take jobs but make jobs, too. Most economists see greater downward pressure on wages coming from other forces, including the decline of the minimum wage (adjusted for inflation), weak unions, outsourcing and technological change.
The National Academy of Sciences concluded in 2017 that immigration’s overall effect on wages was “very small,” but added that “some studies have found sizable negative short-run impacts for high school dropouts” (who account for about 8 percent of the work force). Even among dropouts, some economists find the effects modest or nonexistent.
One prominent scholar, the Harvard economist George Borjas, consistently finds negative impacts much larger than his peers do. He is the figure Mr. Miller most often cites.
A Sign of Things to Come
In moving to Mr. Sessions’s Senate suite, Mr. Miller arrived at a crossroads for the restrictionist movement’s people and ideas.
As head of communications, Mr. Miller acquired a deep knowledge of the movement’s players and policy goals. Others in the office would also go on to influential jobs in the Trump administration, not least Mr. Sessions himself, who as attorney general presided over a policy that separated thousands of young immigrant children from parents illegally crossing the border.
Mr. Miller’s minor moment of Capitol Hill renown stems from his efforts to defeat the so-called Gang of Eight bill, a bipartisan attempt to pair new enforcement measures with legalization for most of the country’s 11 million undocumented immigrants, and to offer them a long path to citizenship.
He opposed the bill with the same zeal that had inspired high school parodies, haranguing reporters into the night and earning a gadfly reputation.
In retrospect, three elements of Mr. Miller’s approach foreshadowed his future exercise of power. One was his rejection of the view that Republicans needed to court minorities. The Gang of Eight bill was born after the 2012 presidential race, in which the defeated Republican, Mitt Romney, lost the Latino vote by 44 points.
No less a hard-liner than the Fox News host Sean Hannity called for legalizing most of the country’s undocumented immigrants. “Pathway to citizenship — done,” he said on his radio show. The Republican National Committee urged the party “to empower and support ethnic minorities” and “champion comprehensive immigration reform,” meaning legalization.
Mr. Miller took the opposite view, which the party ultimately followed: Mobilize the white working-class base, among whom turnout had fallen.
While Mr. Bush had seen Latinos as natural Republicans, most restrictionists saw them as an electoral threat. “If four out of five Latinos are registering with the Democrats, perhaps less immigration would be in the interest of the Republican Party, no?” wrote Jon Feere of the Center for Immigration Studies, a spinoff of FAIR. (Mr. Feere later joined the Trump administration as an immigration adviser. )
A second feature of Mr. Miller’s efforts was his symbiotic relationship with conservative media, especially online publications like Breitbart News.
Lacking gatekeepers, the internet was a medium tailor-made for anti-establishment causes. Right-wing populism had long flourished on talk radio, but Breitbart, with few restrictions on space, could cover the issue in greater depth, bringing intense scrutiny to hot-button issues. And social media made articles easy to share.
Breitbart ran three stories making the false charge, circulated by Mr. Sessions’s staff, that the bill offered undocumented immigrants free cellphones.
Mr. Miller and Breitbart worked together closely.
“Sessions: Special Interest, Extremist Groups Wrote Immigration Bill,” claimed one Breitbart headline.
“Sessions: ‘Tide is Beginning to Turn’ Against Immigration Bill,” announced another.
A third element of Mr. Miller’s work involved his alliance with outside groups, especially three that Dr. Tanton helped create and that received millions of dollars from Mrs. May’s foundation. (Over a recent 12-year period alone, the foundation gave the Center for Immigration Studies $17.6 million, FAIR $56.7 million and NumbersUSA $58.2 million.)
Once a lonely cause, restrictionism had grown into a mature movement — an intellectual ecosystem of sorts — with groups specializing in areas as diverse as litigation and voter mobilization.
When Mr. Sessions claimed on a conference call that the Gang of Eight bill threatened jobs, an analyst from the Center for Immigration Studies was on the line to vouch for the data, and Breitbart covered it as news. When the center presented its journalism award, Mr. Miller was the speaker, and his first-name references to the Center’s staff — “all the great work that Mark and Jessica and Steve are doing”— made it clear that he felt among friends.
Despite Mr. Sessions’s opposition, the bill passed in the Democratic Senate in 2013. As it headed to the Republican House, Mr. Miller drafted a 30-page memo that Mr. Sessions shared with the House Republican caucus, urging members to oppose the bill on behalf of “millions of struggling American workers.”
House leaders were mulling how to proceed when, in June 2014, an obscure Virginia professor toppled the majority leader, Eric Cantor, in a Republican primary. Though vastly outspent, the newcomer, Dave Brat, prevailed in large part by attacking Mr. Cantor for being “in cahoots” with Democrats on immigration.
“The world just changed,” Mr. Miller exulted the next day.
Indeed, it had. Among those commenting in Breitbart was the “conservative provocateur” Donald J. Trump, who said the upset showed that the Republican establishment was at risk. “Everybody is now vulnerable,” he said.
Circulating the article, Mr. Miller told friends that he wished Mr. Trump would run for president. When Mr. Trump did — demanding a wall and a ban on Muslims entering the country — Mr. Miller soon signed on.
The Right Kind of Candidate
Mr. Miller rose quickly on the small staff. A prolific writer and combative surrogate, he was the person most knowledgeable about the campaign’s central issue, and he lavished Mr. Trump with praise. (The Trump candidacy, Mr. Miller said, had altered “Western civilization.”) He also served as an ideological chaperone to a candidate given to sudden reversals of signature policies, a role Mr. Miller continues to play in the White House.
Mr. Trump scored a coup by winning the support of some tech workers who, after being laid off by the Walt Disney Company, were forced to train foreign replacements admitted on temporary H-1B visas.
The workers embodied Mr. Trump’s larger argument that immigration hurt American employment. Yet days after appearing with them at a rally, Mr. Trump said in a televised debate that he would drop his plan to restrict the H-1B program.
“I’m changing, I’m changing,” he told the stunned interviewer. “I’m softening the position because we have to have talented people in this country.”
Within hours, Mr. Trump reversed himself again, issuing a statement to assure his followers that he planned to “end forever the use of H-1B as a cheap labor program.”
Despite the president’s public image as an unrelenting immigration foe, some restrictionist leaders view him as soft — a businessman whose desire for labor will lead him to support more immigration. That unreliability, they say, makes Mr. Miller’s presence especially important.
“If he weren’t there, I’m pretty sure it’d be worse,” said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies.
To Remake America’s Self-Image
Mr. Miller now occupies a large West Wing office and has influence on virtually every element of immigration policy, from the words the president uses to the regulations he promulgates. Mr. Miller is a speechwriter, policy architect, personnel director, legislative aide, spokesman and strategist. At every step, he has pushed for the hardest line.
When Mr. Trump wavered on his pledge to abolish protections for 800,000 so-called Dreamers — people brought illegally to the United States as children — Mr. Miller urged conservative states to threaten lawsuits. Mr. Trump then canceled the protections.
When the president later mulled a deal to restore them, Mr. Miller stacked the negotiations with people who opposed the move, leading Mr. Trump to abandon compromise and rail against immigrants from “shithole countries.”
“As long as Stephen Miller is in charge of negotiating immigration, we are going nowhere,” complained Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who supported a deal.
The Trump effort to curb immigration has played out amid so much chaos — judicial setbacks, congressional defeats, personnel purges, Twitter wars — that it can be hard to keep a running tally of its impact.
The attempt to revoke Dreamer protections has been blocked in court. An effort to bar travelers from certain predominantly Muslim countries was struck down twice. The promised border wall has not been built. A campaign to deter illegal immigration by separating thousands of children from their mothers was abandoned amid blistering criticism, including some from the right.
Still, Mr. Miller has left a big mark, in ways both obvious and obscure. After two highly publicized failures, he helped craft a travel ban that passed court muster. A fervent critic of refugee programs, he has helped cut annual admissions by about three-quarters since the end of the Obama administration.
Writing in Politico, his uncle, Dr. Glosser, expressed an “increasing horror” at his nephew’s hostility to refugees and noted that their ancestor, Wolf-Leib Glosser, arrived at Ellis Island after fleeing Russian pogroms. Had Mr. Miller’s policies prevailed then, he wrote, the Glossers probably “would have been murdered by the Nazis,” as most in their village were.
With less fanfare, Mr. Miller has guided a series of policy changes that critics liken to building an “invisible wall.” The Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group, counted more than 100 of them, noting that “most have moved forward untouched.”
The Trump administration quadrupled the number of work site investigations. It slowed the processing of temporary H-1B visas. It imposed new performance measures on immigration judges, to encourage faster deportations.
Though Mr. Miller was often the driving force, many of these changes were longstanding goals of the restrictionist movement. “He comes from a community of people who’ve been working on this, some of them, since the ’90s,” said Roy Beck, the president of NumbersUSA.
Beyond the commas and clauses of government rules, Mr. Miller and Mr. Trump are trying to change something deeper: America’s self-conception as a land of immigrants. Mr. Trump is the son of an immigrant. Two of the three women he married are immigrants. Four of his five children have an immigrant parent. Yet his immigration agency rewrote its mission statement to remove the phrase “nation of immigrants.”
Mr. Miller even took to the White House briefing room to offer a revisionist view of the Statue of Liberty. Like many in his movement, he argued it should not be seen as welcoming immigrants because it was originally built for a different purpose (to celebrate political freedom) and that the Emma Lazarus poem hailing the “huddled masses” carries little meaning because it was added later.
The border wars intensified this spring as large numbers of Central American families sought asylum and Mr. Trump, with Mr. Miller urging him on, purged top officials from the Homeland Security Department, including the secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen; he argued they weren’t doing enough to keep them out.
But a quieter bureaucratic story may have revealed as much about Mr. Miller’s priorities and bureaucratic skill.
After long deliberation, the administration last week released a 217-page rule making it easier to deny admission or permanent residency to low-income immigrants deemed likely to receive public benefits. Unlike the border disputes, this so-called public charge rule affects only legal immigrants, since the unauthorized are already barred from most safety-net programs.
Critics say the rule is already causing needy immigrants to forgo health care and nutritional aid. They call it a backdoor way of circumventing Congress and creating a new immigration system that admits fewer people, excludes the “huddled masses,” and favors Europeans over poorer Mexican and Central Americans.
Mr. Miller was so eager to see the rule enacted, he helped push out a one-time ally, L. Francis Cissna, the head of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, for not moving fast enough.
Mr. Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies argued that the rule would have only modest effects on immigrant numbers but praised Mr. Miller for asserting a principle. “The point of immigration policy is to benefit Americans,” he said, not “strain the social safety net.”
While the restrictionist movement had long taken that principle to heart, he said “Stephen understood how to operationalize it.”
Michael D. Shear contributed reporting, and Kitty Bennett contributed research. 
PHOTOS: Stephen Miller has the ear of the president on immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN SCHAFF/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Long vocal against immigration, Stephen Miller, at left above, has consolidated power over a single issue in a way that’s unusual for a presidential aide and unique in the Trump White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES); President Ronald Reagan signing the Immigration Reform and Control Act in 1986, which gave nearly three million people legal status. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN, VIA GETTY IMAGES); PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A22); PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES); President Trump at the United States-Mexico border in April with the Home- land Security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, left, shortly before she was pushed out. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23)
Related Articles
• Why an Heiress Spent Her Fortune Trying to Keep Immigrants Out
• Trump Policy Favors Wealthier Immigrants for Green Cards

Load-Date: August 19, 2019


End of Document


Deficit, Immigration, Mongol Derby: Your Wednesday Evening Briefing
The New York Times 
August 21, 2019 Wednesday 17:40 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1128 words
Byline: Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue
Highlight: Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
Body


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. $1 trillion.
That’s what the federal budget deficit will top next year. It’s growing faster than expected, and President Trump is considering more spending.
The rising projection is the result of sluggish growth in federal revenue after Mr. Trump’s 2017 tax cuts went into effect, and increases for military and nondefense domestic spending.
We also went inside the Trump administration’s push for oil exploration in the Arctic refuge. Records show that the White House pressed scientists for quick findings, dismissed bad news and radically overestimated revenues from lease sales.
_____
2. President Trump added fuel to various fires.
He said Denmark’s prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, had been “nasty” in rejecting his interest in purchasing Greenland as “absurd.” (Mr. Trump was explaining why he abruptly canceled a trip to Denmark next month.)
And he didn’t stop there in remarks to reporters outside the White House. For a second consecutive day, Mr. Trump accused Jewish voters of disloyalty if they voted for Democrats.
“If you want to vote Democrat, you are being very disloyal to Jewish people and very disloyal to Israel,” Mr. Trump said. He began the day by thanking a conspiracy theorist on Twitter for saying Jews in Israel love the president “like he’s the king of Israel.”
_____
3. A new Trump administration rule would allow the U.S. to detain indefinitely families who cross the border illegally, abolishing a 20-day limit.
The regulation, which must be approved by a federal judge, would also let the White House set standards for conditions at centers. It is expected to be immediately challenged in court. Above, migrant families at a bus station last year after being released by immigration authorities in McAllen, Tex.
The overhaul issued today would reverse protections set under the Flores settlement in 1997. Here’s how they came to be.
_____
4. An ambitious gun control plan has emerged from some of the survivors of the shooting massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.
The March for Our Lives group unveiled a plan that would ban assault weapons, raise the minimum age for buying firearms, create a national gun registry and other measures that have faced strong opposition from the gun lobby.
“We know this seems ambitious, given Washington’s apathy to decades of bloodshed in our schools, neighborhoods, and even our houses of worship,” said David Hogg, 19, a founder of the group, pictured above in January. “It’s okay to disagree with us — but we know video games aren’t to blame.”
_____
5. Fires in the Amazon rain forest are spreading at record speed.
More than 74,000 fires have been detected so far this year, an 84 percent increase from the same period last year, the country’s space research center said. They are raging in uninhabited areas, but are so widespread that smoke has wafted thousands of miles away to the Atlantic coast and São Paulo, the country’s most populous city. Above, a satellite image.
A professor at the University of São Paulo said the fires were a marker of the final stage of deforestation, in which trees are cut down to be sold and then loggers and farmers burn the rest.
_____
6. Prime Minister Boris Johnson set off onhis first foreign trip as Britain’s leader on his way to the Group of 7 meeting this weekend in France, where he faces a delicate diplomatic dance with world leaders over Brexit.
Ahead of a potentially chaotic no-deal Brexit on Oct. 31, Mr. Johnson needs President Trump’s help to cushion the economic impact. But he also has to keep some distance, given Mr. Trump’s unpopularity among both Europeans and Britons.
Today in Berlin, his first stop, Chancellor Angela Merkel effectively challenged Mr. Johnson to produce a detailed, practical solution within 30 days to avoid a hard Brexit.
_____
7. Here’s an unexpected consequence of widespread consumer DNA tests: Scores of children born through artificial insemination have learned that their biological fathers were the doctors who performed the procedure. Eve Wiley, above, is one of them.
Some women carefully selected sperm donors, while others were told their husband’s sperm was being used. Instead, their doctors inseminated them with their own sperm.
Three states have now passed laws criminalizing this conduct, including Texas, which now defines it as a form of sexual assault.
_____
8. Our Upshot team looked into a work-life oddity: How is it that female doctors are more likely than other professionals to have children and keep working?
They found it’s because medicine has changed in ways that give many workers more control over when they work, including larger group practices and being on call at predictable times. Women are also more likely to go into specialties with shorter hours and fewer emergencies, like dermatology; areas with long, inflexible hours, like cardiology, have more men. Dr. Britni Hebert, above with her sons, decided to practice internal medicine and geriatrics.
As American employers struggle to adapt to the realities of modern family life that includes more balance, medicine could offer lessons for other jobs.
_____
9. The right answer was 8,186,699,633,530,061. He figured it out on an abacus.
At an annual tournament in Kyoto, competitors as young as 8 years old pull off dazzling arithmetic feats on the beads of an abacus. It is still taught in Japanese schools, although not as intensively as it once was. But the centuries-old tool is still popular, and national tournaments attract elite competitors.
“I listen and move my fingers and repeat the numbers in my head,” this year’s 16-year-old winner said, trying to explain how he could possibly do what he does. “As soon as I hear the unit like trillion or billion, I start to move my fingers.”
_____
10. And finally, the oldest person to win the world’s longest multi-horse race.
Seventy-year-old Bob Long of Boise, Idaho, won the Mongol Derby, a grueling 1,000-kilometer competition across the steppes of Mongolia. Mr. Long rode about 100 hours in seven and a half days, on 28 different horses, by his tally.
The amateur rider began training in January with previous winners of the race, riding four or five horses a day as far as each could go, and learning how to change horses efficiently. The key to Mr. Long’s success? “Preparation trumps youth,” he said.
See you at the finish line.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 22, 2019


End of Document


Bankrolling the Anti-Immigration Movement
The New York Times 
August 19, 2019 Monday 10:23 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: PODCASTS; the-daily
Length: 328 words
Highlight: Much of the money behind the movement can be traced to one heiress who made it her life’s work to keep immigrants out of America.
Body


Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: 
Via Apple Podcasts |            Via RadioPublic |            Via Stitcher
The New York Times investigated how Cordelia Scaife May, an heiress to the Mellon family’s banking and industrial fortune, used her wealth to sow the seeds of the modern anti-immigration movement — and of Trump administration policy.
[For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition            here.]
On today’s episode:
• Natalie Kitroeff, a business reporter for The New York Times. 
• Nicholas Kulish, who covers immigration issues for The Times.
Background reading:
• Newly unearthed documents show how an environmental-minded socialite became a nativist whose vision for strictly limiting immigration has, in many ways, reached a culmination in the Trump presidency. 
• Groups that Mrs. May funded shared policy proposals with the Trump campaign, sent staff members to join the administration and have close ties to Stephen Miller, the architect of the president’s immigration agenda.
Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter:            @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at            thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.
Nicholas Kulish contributed reporting.
“The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, Adizah Eghan, Kelly Prime, Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, Jazmín Aguilera, M.J. Davis Lin and Dan Powell. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan and Julia Simon.

Load-Date: August 20, 2019


End of Document


Playing Trump's Immigration Game
The New York Times
August 17, 2019 Saturday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23
Length: 1241 words
Byline: By PETER H. SCHUCK
Body


Despite fewer unauthorized immigrants entering the United States than there were a decade ago, immigration is shaping up to be a pivotal topic in the 2020 debate. The crowded field of Democratic candidates for president have rightly called out President Trump for his racist, divisive and often false anti-immigrant rhetoric. But few have offered a compelling policy response to the president -- and if they don't, their failure may help get him re-elected.
Before Mr. Trump's campaign, immigration was fairly low on voters' lists of their top issues. Since Mr. Trump's election, this has changed strikingly: In a Gallup poll of registered voters taken days before the 2018 midterms, immigration tied with the economy as the ''most'' or an ''extremely'' important issue, at 78 percent, just below health care. The concern is bipartisan -- 74 percent of Democrats and Democratic leaners ranked it similarly near the top. 
  Mr. Trump understands that these voters represent a ripe target for fearmongering and for extremist policies that play off that fear. At heart, voters have legitimate concerns about undocumented immigration and the possibility of ever-larger numbers of people attempting to cross the southern border. But Democrats' leading candidates have responded defensively, with rhetoric and policy ideas that are sometimes extreme and incoherent in the opposite direction.
  During the recent presidential debates, the field of 20 candidates took positions that focus on largely peripheral issues and seem mostly intended to play to the emotions of liberal base voters: decriminalizing illegal entry (relatively few cases are prosecuted criminally, usually for trafficking); providing free health care (largely a state law issue, except for emergency Medicaid); and not deporting illegal entrants who commit no other offense. Democrats also -- rightly -- favor more immigration judges and safe, well-run detention facilities that don't separate parents and young children.
  For the most part, though, Democratic candidates appear unwilling to make the hard choices that a difficult situation like the one along the border demands. For example, facilities on the American side are inadequate to house all the people seeking asylum; it makes sense, then, to house them on the Mexican side, so long as the United States, along with human rights groups, ensures that the applicants have safe, decent housing conditions and due process in immigration court. But most of the candidates reject that option out of hand -- even though we know that a vast majority of asylum claims will be rejected.
  Their unrealistic position seems to imply that most people who arrive at the border asking for asylum have a valid claim. But as much as we can sympathize with their plight, the poverty and generalized fear of violence that most at the border hope to escape do not qualify them for asylum under American or international law. ''Membership in a particular social group'' (the legal category they invoke) is sometimes interpreted to cover fear of targeted gang violence and domestic violence. But courts traditionally have rejected this reading, because such fears are so common and are not tied to a qualifying ''particular social group.'' Democrats should propose more rigorous criteria for adjudicating such claims, rather than just pretend that the law means something it mostly doesn't.
  Democrats should also endorse much stronger interior enforcement, although it is more socially disruptive than border control: Roughly half of the 10.5 million undocumented immigrants in America entered illegally, and the other half overstayed their visas and melted into the population. President Barack Obama took interior enforcement seriously, and Democrats today should not apologize for his actions, deriding him as ''deporter in chief'' -- as they too often do on the stump and the debate stage.
  Effective interior enforcement means mandating that all employers use an improved, pre-hiring E-verify status check, and occasionally using well-targeted work site audits and arrests to enforce employer sanctions, which have been on the books since 1986. No administration, Republican or Democratic, has made that a priority. But it could be a winning issue for a smart Democratic candidate appealing to American working-class and union voters.
  A harder enforcement choice is whether to apprehend otherwise law-abiding undocumented people in places other than at work. Such a tactic may be unwise or unjust in many cases, and it must be done in a way that does not interfere with community policing. But leading Democratic candidates reject even warranted deportation once undocumented migrants manage to cross the border. Predictably, this stance invites charges that they favor ''open borders.'' American voters keen to protect our national sovereignty will punish candidates who risk undermining it.
  Democrats rightly favor legal status for millions of the undocumented, especially the Dreamers and many of their parents (Mr. Trump favored this, then reneged). Congress should extend this status to other longtime-resident, law-abiding undocumented people. The easiest fix would legalize all long-term, continuously resident applicants who can show good moral character -- easy because a statutory remedy dating to 1929 uses a very old eligibility cutoff; it cries out for updating to include those who arrived before, say, 2009.
  The United States should also welcome many more new immigrants than the 1.1 million we now admit annually. Democrats should call for an end to the misbegotten ''diversity lottery,'' which eats up 50,000 precious visas each year, and instead use those visas for a pilot program for a points-based system like Canada's (which proportionately admits many more immigrants than we do).
  Democrats should call for a return to the norm for refugee admissions of roughly 75,000 to 85,000 a year, from the shamefully low 22,000 admitted per year under Mr. Trump. They should also support some conservatives' proposals to modernize the larger system, such as reforming the clotted approval process for admitting temporary farmworkers and H-1Bs, and reassessing the troubled investor visa program.
  Mr. Trump is determined to deny green cards to legal immigrants who use certain federal benefits. In opposing this, Democrats should be careful to draw defensible lines on welfare entitlements for newcomers, lines acceptable to most Americans who respect immigrants who strengthen our society and are as independent as their circumstances permit.
  Rhetoric, then, is not enough, especially when it is simply a retort to the president's latest outburst. Democrats must convince Americans of their ability to govern wisely in the face of unprecedented pressures on our immigration system. Clichés about America being a diverse nation of immigrants, while true, are not policies -- and voters know the difference.
  Peter H. Schuck, an emeritus professor of law at Yale and scholar-in-residence at New York University, is the author, most recently, of ''One Nation Undecided: Clear Thinking About Five Hard Issues That Divide Us.''
  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/15/opinion/on-immigration-the-democrats-are-playing-into-trumps-hands.html

Load-Date: August 18, 2019


End of Document


In Her Own Words: The Woman Who Bankrolled the Anti-Immigration Movement
The New York Times 
August 14, 2019 Wednesday 05:56 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: US
Length: 714 words
Byline: Nicholas Kulish and Mike McIntire
Highlight: Letters and other personal writings reveal what motivated the publicity-shy heiress whose money created, and still fuels, the crusade.
Body


Letters and other personal writings reveal what motivated the publicity-shy heiress whose money created, and still fuels, the crusade.
Cordelia Scaife May, an heiress to the Mellon family’s banking and industrial fortune, was far and away the most important donor to the modern anti-immigration movement during her lifetime. Now, more than a decade after her death, her money still funds the leading organizations fighting to reduce migration.
Her Colcom Foundation has poured $180 million into groups that spent decades agitating for policies now pursued by President Trump: militarizing the border, capping legal immigration and prioritizing skills over family ties for entry. And language she used — about the threat of an “immigrant invasion,” for instance, and environmental strain — echoes in today’s anti-immigration rhetoric, most recently in the words of the killer in the El Paso mass shooting.
The New York Times unearthed letters from Mrs. May and other personal writings that reveal what motivated the movement’s publicity-shy benefactor.
[Read The Times’s investigation into Mrs. May.]
She began with progressive, not populist, ideas
Mrs. May’s efforts on immigration grew out of a progressive interest in protecting the environment and reducing the population through birth control. Long before her views became more radical and took root in the Trump administration, Mrs. May was a nature-loving Roosevelt Republican, and a friend and admirer of the Planned Parenthood founder Margaret Sanger.
But her focus shifted from birthrates to migration
Population control was very much a mainstream concern in the 1960s and ’70s, but interest in it waned after the baby boom tailed off in the United States. Mrs. May’s confidence in birth control would give way to abortion advocacy. And she would be among the first, and most financially influential, to set her sights on immigration as an alarming source of population growth in the United States.
The groups she went on to fund would lobby against legislation that included amnesties for unauthorized immigrants, and push restrictive state and local bills across the country.
Her story helps explain the rise of once-fringe views
In her writings, Mrs. May contended that the country was being “invaded on all fronts by immigrants.” Complaining about the Cubans who arrived in 1980 as part of the Mariel boatlift, she cited their “criminal habits, radical political thought, exotic diseases, neighborhood disruption,” but said their “most dangerous contribution” was their high birthrate, “far higher than that of our native population.” 
“They breed like hamsters,” she wrote.
Groups she supported have painted illegal immigrants as criminals and disease carriers, and as taking public benefits and jobs meant for American citizens. While there is no evidence of Mrs. May — or the groups she supported — calling for violence, many of these ideas were echoed in the manifesto by the gunman in the recent mass shooting in El Paso. He cited a “Hispanic invasion of Texas” as justification for the attack, and deplored environmental degradation and population growth exacerbated by “invaders who also have close to the highest birthrate of all ethnicities in America.”
She has nurtured an anti-immigration ecosystem
The anti-immigration movement funded by Mrs. May’s money extends far beyond the three best-known groups, the Federation for American Immigration Reform, the Center for Immigration Studies and NumbersUSA. Her fortune has nurtured an entire ecosystem, including more oblique efforts like a movement to make English the nation’s official language, and a publishing house and television productions that advocate limiting immigration. 
The sheer number of these groups helped the anti-immigration movement succeed by giving it the appearance of broad-based support.
Since Mr. Trump’s election, former staff members from groups like FAIR and the Center for Immigration Studies have assumed key roles in the administration’s immigration apparatus, working with Stephen Miller, the architect of the president’s immigration agenda.
PHOTO: Writing in 1974 to John D. Rockefeller III, who started the Population Council. She was a board member and contributor before turning her attention to immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 16, 2019


End of Document


On Immigration, the Democrats Are Playing Into Trump’s Hands
The New York Times 
August 15, 2019 Thursday 00:57 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION
Length: 1289 words
Byline: Peter H. Schuck
Highlight: Rather than present tough choices and coherent ideas, they are mostly responding to his outrages with empty rhetoric.
Body


Rather than present tough choices and coherent ideas, they are mostly responding to his outrages with empty rhetoric.
Despite fewer unauthorized immigrants entering the United States than there were a decade ago, immigration is shaping up to be a pivotal topic in the 2020 debate. The crowded field of Democratic candidates for president have rightly called out President Trump for his racist, divisive and often false anti-immigrant rhetoric. But few have offered a compelling policy response to the president — and if they don’t, their failure may help get him re-elected.
Before Mr. Trump’s campaign, immigration was fairly low on voters’ lists of their top issues. Since Mr. Trump’s election, this has changed strikingly: In a Gallup poll of registered voters taken days before the 2018 midterms, immigration tied with the economy as the “most” or an “extremely” important issue, at 78 percent, just below health care. The concern is bipartisan — 74 percent of Democrats and Democratic leaners ranked it similarly near the top.
Mr. Trump understands that these voters represent a ripe target for fearmongering and for extremist policies that play off that fear. At heart, voters have legitimate concerns about undocumented immigration and the possibility of ever-larger numbers of people attempting to cross the southern border. But Democrats’ leading candidates have responded defensively, with rhetoric and policy ideas that are sometimes extreme and incoherent in the opposite direction.
During the recent presidential debates, the field of 20 candidates took positions that focus on largely peripheral issues and seem mostly intended to play to the emotions of liberal base voters: decriminalizing illegal entry (relatively few cases are prosecuted criminally, usually for trafficking); providing free health care (largely a state law issue, except for emergency Medicaid); and not deporting illegal entrants who commit no other offense. Democrats also — rightly — favor more immigration judges and safe, well-run detention facilities that don’t separate parents and young children.
For the most part, though, Democratic candidates appear unwilling to make the hard choices that a difficult situation like the one along the border demands. For example, facilities on the American side are inadequate to house all the people seeking asylum; it makes sense, then, to house them on the Mexican side, so long as the United States, along with human rights groups, ensures that the applicants have safe, decent housing conditions and due process in immigration court. But most of the candidates reject that option out of hand — even though we know that a vast majority of asylum claims will be rejected.
Their unrealistic position seems to imply that most people who arrive at the border asking for asylum have a valid claim. But as much as we can sympathize with their plight, the poverty and generalized fear of violence that most at the border hope to escape do not qualify them for asylum under American or international law. “Membership in a particular social group” (the legal category they invoke) is sometimes interpreted to cover fear of targeted gang violence and domestic violence. But courts traditionally have rejected this reading, because such fears are so common and are not tied to a qualifying “particular social group.” Democrats should propose more rigorous criteria for adjudicating such claims, rather than just pretend that the law means something it mostly doesn’t.
Democrats should also endorse much stronger interior enforcement, although it is more socially disruptive than border control: Roughly half of the 10.5 million undocumented immigrants in America entered illegally, and the other half overstayed their visas and melted into the population. President Barack Obama took interior enforcement seriously, and Democrats today should not apologize for his actions, deriding him as “deporter in chief” — as they too often do on the stump and the debate stage.
Effective interior enforcement means mandating that all employers use an improved, pre-hiring E-verify status check, and occasionally using well-targeted work site audits and arrests to enforce employer sanctions, which have been on the books since 1986. No administration, Republican or Democratic, has made that a priority. But it could be a winning issue for a smart Democratic candidate appealing to American working-class and union voters.
A harder enforcement choice is whether to apprehend otherwise law-abiding undocumented people in places other than at work. Such a tactic may be unwise or unjust in many cases, and it must be done in a way that does not interfere with community policing. But leading Democratic candidates reject even warranted deportation once undocumented migrants manage to cross the border. Predictably, this stance invites charges that they favor “open borders.” American voters keen to protect our national sovereignty will punish candidates who risk undermining it.
Democrats rightly favor legal status for millions of the undocumented, especially the Dreamers and many of their parents (Mr. Trump favored this, then reneged). Congress should extend this status to other longtime-resident, law-abiding undocumented people. The easiest fix would legalize all long-term, continuously resident applicants who can show good moral character — easy because a statutory remedy dating to 1929 uses a very old eligibility cutoff; it cries out for updating to include those who arrived before, say, 2009.
The United States should also welcome many more new immigrants than the 1.1 million we now admit annually. Democrats should call for an end to the misbegotten “diversity lottery,” which eats up 50,000 precious visas each year, and instead use those visas for a pilot program for a points-based system like Canada’s (which proportionately admits many more immigrants than we do).
Democrats should call for a return to the norm for refugee admissions of roughly 75,000 to 85,000 a year, from the shamefully low 22,000 admitted per year under Mr. Trump. They should also support some conservatives’ proposals to modernize the larger system, such as reforming the clotted approval process for admitting temporary farmworkers and H-1Bs, and reassessing the troubled investor visa program.
Mr. Trump is determined to deny green cards to legal immigrants who use certain federal benefits. In opposing this, Democrats should be careful to draw defensible lines on welfare entitlements for newcomers, lines acceptable to most Americans who respect immigrants who strengthen our society and are as independent as their circumstances permit.
Rhetoric, then, is not enough, especially when it is simply a retort to the president’s latest outburst. Democrats must convince Americans of their ability to govern wisely in the face of unprecedented pressures on our immigration system. Clichés about America being a diverse nation of immigrants, while true, are not policies — and voters know the difference.
Peter H. Schuck, an emeritus professor of law at Yale and scholar-in-residence at New York University, is the author, most recently, of “One Nation Undecided: Clear Thinking About Five Hard Issues That Divide Us.”
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some            tips. And here’s our email:            letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook,            Twitter (@NYTopinion) and            Instagram.
PHOTO: Asylum seekers waiting on the international bridge between Laredo, Tex., and Nuevo Laredo, Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Luis Antonio Rojas for The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 18, 2019


End of Document


Date and Time: Monday, August 26, 2019 8:52:00 AM EDT
Job Number: 95794534
Documents (10)
1. Overlooked No More: Lau Sing Kee, War Hero Jailed for Helping Immigrants
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
2. Trump Administration Moves to Decertify Outspoken Immigration Judges’ Union
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
3. Immigration, Hong Kong, California Highway Patrol: Your Tuesday Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
4. Immigration, Endangered Wildlife Act, Jeffery Epstein: Your Monday Evening Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
5. Texas Democrats Urge G.O.P. to 'Eradicate' Incendiary Rhetoric
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
6. Justice Department Newsletter Included Extremist Blog Post
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
7. A Health Nightmare Near the Border
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
8. Joe Arpaio Says He Will Run Again for Maricopa County Sheriff
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
9. Joe Arpaio Says He Will Run Again for Maricopa County Sheriff
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
10. Joe Arpaio Says He Will Run Again for Maricopa County Sheriff
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times


Overlooked No More: Lau Sing Kee, War Hero Jailed for Helping Immigrants
The New York Times
August 26, 2019 Monday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16
Length: 1344 words
Body


Overlooked is a series of obituaries about remarkable people whose deaths, beginning in 1851, went unreported in The Times.
By Andrew R. Chow 
  Lau Sing Kee was an American war hero, but he was also mocked as a ''Chinese boy.'' He was a civic leader, but he also became a convicted criminal for skirting discriminatory immigration laws.
  His path, from decorated soldier to prison inmate, was emblematic of how Chinese immigrants and their descendants struggled to find their footing in early 20th-century America.
  In 1917, after he moved to New York City from California and settled in Chinatown, Kee enlisted in the Army in the midst of World War I. His unit, the 77th Infantry Division, became known as the Cosmopolitan Division because of its high concentration of first-generation immigrants. It soon shipped out to the Western Front.
  In August, Kee, by then a sergeant, was stationed at the village of Mont-Notre-Dame in northern France when German guns began to bombard and gas his post at a rate of 30 shells a minute. Kee was one of 20 runners who were a crucial communication lifeline between units and from command posts to the front lines. In the face of a German offensive to take the village, the runners navigated through machine-gun fire and gas and flamethrower attacks until all were wounded, unconscious or dead. Kee was the only one who managed to keep going.
  ''I felt as if I had been hit in the face with a pound of red pepper,'' he recalled in a 1919 interview with The San Jose Mercury Herald. ''It burned my eyes, nose and throat, and I could not breathe. The pain was so intense.''
  But he maintained communications single-handedly for more than 24 hours, collapsing on the ground after delivering his last message. The village held.
  When asked by a reporter for The Los Angeles Evening Herald how he had managed to man his post for so long on the battlefield, Kee said simply, ''There was nobody to do it but me.''
  Kee's division pushed the retreating German forces across the Vesle River in France. Kee was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, the second-highest military award for an Army service member after the Medal of Honor. He is believed to be the first Chinese-American to win a United States combat medal.
  ''Throughout this critical period he showed extraordinary heroism, high courage, and persistent devotion to duty and totally disregarded all personal danger,'' the medal citation said. He was promoted to color sergeant and awarded a Purple Heart as well as France's Croix de Guerre for valor.
  Kee was honorably discharged after the war, on May 9, 1919, and returned to the United States, where he was met with a mix of admiration and incredulity. Thousands of spectators greeted him and the other soldiers ecstatically in June when they marched in a military parade down Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. But most news coverage of Kee's honors made reference to his race, sometimes in disparaging ways. The New York Times described him as the parade's ''star exotic.'' The Brooklyn Eagle, calling him ''the Chinese boy,'' published a cartoon of him as a diminutive, paddy hat-clad child being stroked on the head by Uncle Sam. The Los Angeles Evening Herald called him a ''quiet, law-abiding, little almond-eyed 'chink.'''
  Kee is believed to have been born between 1894 and 1896 in Saratoga, Calif., southwest of San Jose, to Low Chung Kee and Mary Low, immigrants from China.
  His name at birth is unclear. His family name is either Low or Lau, but since both are phonetically indistinguishable in Chinese, different members of the family took one spelling or the other. It's customary for Chinese names to list the family name first, but American immigration officials recorded his last name as Kee rather than Lau. He kept Kee as his last name, then passed it down to subsequent generations.
  During his childhood Kee and his family moved to the outskirts of San Jose's bustling Chinatown, where his father owned a cigar and candy store and contracted work for Chinese laborers.
  The neighborhood was a refuge from widespread animosity toward Chinese immigrants. Thousands of immigrants performing manual labor in agriculture and railroad-building were cast by tabloid newspapers and others as representing a ''yellow peril'' that would take jobs away from the white working class.
  The reaction was violent at times; in 1885 white workers in Wyoming massacred 28 Chinese coal miners. And it led to institutionalized racism in the form of the Chinese Immigration Act of 1882, which shut the door on Chinese laborers. Later laws req=uired Chinese-Americans to carry photo passports at all times and forbade them from buying land. Many Americans of Chinese origin, like Kee, were considered ''aliens.''
  After serving in the war, Kee settled in New York's Chinatown, where he secured a job as a translator for the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service on Ellis Island. It was around this time that Congress passed the Immigration Act of 1924, which severely restricted immigration from Asia and banned Asian-American citizens from bringing their spouses to the United States from Asia.
  Whether coincidentally or purposely, Kee's wife, Ina Chan Kee, arrived from China weeks before the law went into effect. She had worked in the silk mills in Guangdong, in southern China, and her marriage to Kee had been arranged. The couple had five children, some of whom would grow up to become doctors and lawyers, including Herbert and Norman Lau Kee, prominent figures in Chinatown.
  As restrictions mounted and legal Chinese immigration to the United States slowed to a trickle, migrants, eager to escape the poverty and upheaval experienced by many during the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937-45) and the Chinese Civil War, teamed up with Chinese-Americans to find creative ways to gain entry.
  In one practice, migrants became ''paper sons'' by obtaining fraudulent documents that claimed they were the children of Chinese-Americans. Kee aided immigrants in this practice when he became an immigration broker and travel agent for the China Overseas Travel Service in New York's Chinatown.
  His business thrived, especially in 1943, when the Chinese Exclusion Act was repealed and a quota of 105 visas a year was established for China.
  Kee became a civic leader in Chinatown; when the United States entered World War II, he served as a volunteer member of his local Selective Service board, helping administer the draft and acting as a liaison between the military and the recruits from his neighborhood.
  He also used his savings to open Chinese restaurants in Brooklyn and Staten Island.
  But Kee's involvement in illegal immigration caught up to him. In 1956, he was arrested and found guilty of conspiring to violate the country's immigration laws and sentenced to two and a half years in prison.
  After serving his time in Danbury Federal Correctional Institution in Connecticut, he moved with his wife to Staten Island, where he remained active in the veterans community but struggled with diabetes. He died at his home on Staten Island on June 3, 1967, two years after the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1965 abolished the quota system and ended an admissions policy based on race and ethnicity.
  In 1997, his body was interred at Arlington National Cemetery. In 2011, the Senate formally apologized for its history of discriminatory laws against Chinese immigrants.
  Kee received a more unusual form of recognition in 1976 when Stevie Wonder released a song called ''Black Man,'' which celebrates a diverse set of historical figures. In arguing for equality and tolerance, he sings the praises of Cesar Chavez (''a brown man''), Sacagawea (''a red woman'') and other well-known pioneers.
  Toward the end of the song, Wonder sings:
  ''Who was the soldier of Company G who won high honors for his courage and heroism in World War I? / Sing Kee -- a yellow man.''
  Alain Delaqueriere contributed research.
  This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.         

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/21/obituaries/lau-sing-kee-overlooked.html

Graphic

 
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HISTORY SAN JOSÉ)       

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Trump Administration Moves to Decertify Outspoken Immigration Judges’ Union
The New York Times 
August 10, 2019 Saturday 12:34 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: US
Length: 814 words
Byline: Christina Goldbaum
Highlight: The Justice Department moved to decertify the immigration judges’ union, whose members have criticized the administration’s immigration policies.
Body


The Justice Department has moved to decertify the union of immigration judges, a maneuver that could muffle an organization whose members have sometimes been openly critical of the Trump administration’s immigration enforcement agenda.
The department filed a petition on Friday asking the Federal Labor Relations Authority to determine whether the union, the National Association of Immigration Judges, should have its certification revoked because its members are considered “management officials” ineligible to collectively organize, according to a Justice Department spokesman.
The move suggested escalating tensions between overwhelmed immigration judges desperate for greater resources and a Justice Department pushing them to quickly address a backlog of immigration cases.
“This is a misguided effort to minimize our impact,” said Judge Amiena Khan, vice president of the judges’ union, which has publicly criticized the use of a quota system in immigration court and other attempts to speed up proceedings.
“We serve as a check and balance on management prerogatives and that’s why they are doing this to us,” said Judge Khan.
Unlike other federal judges who are part of the judicial branch, immigration judges are appointed by the attorney general and are employees of the Justice Department. Though sitting judges are prohibited from speaking publicly about issues that could be considered political, representatives of the immigration judges’ union can speak publicly about Justice Department policies on behalf of its members.
This is not the first time an administration has challenged the organization. The Clinton administration also tried to decertify the immigration judges’ union, a move that the Federal Labor Relations Authority rejected, according to former immigration judges.
Both Judge Khan and the union president, Judge Ashley Tabaddor, have spoken out repeatedly against what they say is an attempt to turn immigration judges from neutral arbiters of the law to law enforcement agents enacting the White House’s policies. They have called for immigration judges to be independent of the Justice Department.
Last year, the union criticized the department’s quota system, which required immigration judges to complete 700 cases per year, as well as a move to bar judges from an administrative tool they had previously used to reduce their caseloads. The union says the focus on efficiency impedes judges’ ability to work through complicated cases and could affect the due process rights of immigrants in court.
The pressure to hear more cases more quickly amounts to “psychological warfare,” Judge Tabaddor said last year.
Addressing some of the union’s concerns, the Justice Department has tried to tackle the backlog, which now totals more than 830,000 cases, by hiring more immigration judges. Judges appointed by President Trump now make up 43 percent of the nation’s immigration judges, a larger share than under any of his five predecessors, according to a recent analysis by The Associated Press. A large number of his appointees are former military or Immigration and Customs Enforcement lawyers, the analysis found.
But that hiring has not been accompanied by other necessary support, Judge Khan said.
“I can’t work alone, I am reliant on support staff,” said Judge Khan. “Right now there are two judges to one support staff person,” which has delayed the progress of cases despite the additional judges, she said.
The judges’ union plans to officially respond to the Justice Department’s petition once it receives official notification from the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
If the attempt to decertify the union is successful, it could leave judges without recourse for their already overwhelming workload, judges said.
“The union won’t be able to help judges with overall working conditions at a time when most all judges would tell you working conditions are worse now than they have ever been,” said Paul Schmidt, a former immigration judge.
Judge Khan called the Justice Department’s petition part of “a systematic attack on unions” representing federal employees under the Trump administration. Last year, Mr. Trump signed a series of executive orders that rolled back the workplace role of unions for at least two million federal workers and made it easier to fire them. The administration said the move would make the government more efficient.
The Justice Department’s recent petition will most likely prompt an investigation by the Federal Labor Relations Authority, according to a department spokesman.
PHOTO: Ashley Tabaddor, president of the National Association of Immigration Judges, has criticized the Justice Department’s policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Related Articles
• In Court Without a Lawyer: The Consequences of Trump’s ‘Remain in Mexico’ Plan
• Some Democrats Want to Decriminalize Illegal Border Crossings. Would It Work?

Load-Date: August 12, 2019


End of Document


Immigration, Hong Kong, California Highway Patrol: Your Tuesday Briefing
The New York Times 
August 13, 2019 Tuesday 12:37 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1441 words
Byline: Chris Stanford
Highlight: Here’s what you need to know.
Body


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
We’re covering new details about the death of Jeffrey Epstein, the demonstrations at Hong Kong’s airport, and a deadly shootout in California.
Jeffrey Epstein was left alone for hours
Neither of the two people guarding the financier had checked on him for several hours before he was found dead in his cell, prison and law-enforcement officials said on Monday, and one of the two was not a full-fledged correctional officer.
Attorney General William Barr said there were “serious irregularities” at the federal jail in Manhattan where Mr. Epstein was awaiting trial on sex-trafficking charges. Questions have been raised about why Mr. Epstein was taken off suicide watch just days after apparently trying to kill himself.
Perspective: In an interview with                      a Times business columnist last year, Mr. Epstein said that sex with teenage girls should be acceptable, and that he had dirt on powerful people. 
Related: Mr. Epstein’s death has prompted an explosion of unfounded conspiracy theories.  On Monday, Mayor Bill de Blasio joined those who have questioned the official explanation. “It’s just too convenient,” he said.
The Daily: Today’s episode is about the future of the criminal case involving Mr. Epstein.
Policy lets U.S. reject the poor for green cards
Starting in October, the government will use a wealth test to determine whether legal immigrants who want to remain in the U.S. have the means to support themselves.
Under a regulation announced on Monday, poor immigrants would be denied permanent legal status, known as a green card, if they are considered likely to use benefit programs such as food stamps and subsidized housing.
Hundreds of thousands of immigrants enter the country legally every year, but President Trump has said that the U.S. should welcome immigrants based only on the “merit” they demonstrate. 
The details: The program would not apply to those who already have green cards, to certain members of the military, to refugees and asylum-seekers, or to pregnant women and children. Immigration advocates warned that many people may drop out of programs they need because they fear retribution.
Trump administration weakens Endangered Species Act
A significant revision to the country’s bedrock conservation law would, for the first time, allow economic assessments to be included when deciding whether a species warrants protection.
The new rules, expected to go into effect next month, would also make it more difficult for regulators to factor in the effects of climate change. 
Republicans have long sought to narrow the scope of the law, saying that it burdens landowners and businesses. Environmental groups, Democratic state attorneys general and Democrats in Congress said they would challenge the changes in court.
Background: The Endangered Species Act has been regulators’ most powerful tool for protecting wildlife since it was signed by President Richard Nixon in 1973. The law has been credited with rescuing the bald eagle, the grizzly bear and the American alligator, among other species, from the brink of extinction.
Hong Kong experiment runs off the rails
Recent unrest is exposing the inherent conflict in Hong Kong’s political system since China reclaimed the territory from Britain in 1997: an effort to unite Beijing’s authoritarianism with civil liberties.
The demonstrations in the city have become the biggest public resistance to the rule of China’s leader, Xi Jinping, since he took power in 2012. Although he doesn’t want to be perceived as yielding, he is likely to be wary of taking drastic action, such as deploying troops, for fear of broader fallout.
Related: Hong Kong’s airport suspended check-ins today as antigovernment demonstrators disrupted its operations for a second day.
The details: Here’s what you need to know if you’re flying through Hong Kong.
If you have 8 minutes, this is worth it
As Phoenix heats up, the night comes alive
Arizona’s capital is one of the hottest and fastest-warming cities in the U.S., with 128 days at or above 100 degrees Fahrenheit last year. 
That means work and play shift into cooler hours. In the hottest months, the zoo opens at 6 a.m., and some construction starts in the middle of the night — not only for the safety of workers, but also because the heat can affect some building materials.
Here’s what else is happening
Assault weapons ban: Top Democrats are calling for a ban on the firearms. A 1994 law barred Americans from buying certain military-style weapons and high-capacity magazines, until Republicans let it expire in 2004.
Shootout in California: A Highway Patrol officer was killed and two others injured after a driver apparently opened fire during a traffic stop in Riverside, near Los Angeles. The driver was also killed.
Ebola treatments: Two experimental therapies are working so well that they will be offered to all patients in the Democratic Republic of Congo, scientists said. The treatments saved about 90 percent of newly infected patients.
Snapshot: Above, crowds at the Mona Lisa in the Louvre in Paris on Monday. The museum has moved the famous painting during renovations, causing commotion.
In pursuit of Amelia Earhart: An explorer who found the Titanic and other famous shipwrecks is leading a search for the plane in which the aviator disappeared in 1937.
Metropolitan Diary: In this week’s column, a reader is taken aback while crossing the street, a photogenic doughnut and more tales of New York City.
Late-night comedy: “I’m not saying the Clintons don’t have any power,” Stephen Colbert said. “But masterminding a scheme to assassinate a high-profile prisoner in a maximum-security federal custody? They couldn’t even mastermind a visit to Wisconsin.”
What we’re reading: This Grub Street article. Our newsletter director, Adam Pasick, writes: “The secret history of ‘nutcrackers’ — illegal cocktails sold under the counter in New York City — suggests that legalization isn’t the end of the story for mind-altering substances.”
Now, a break from the news
Cook: Sam Sifton’s freestyle roasted chicken parm breaks a few rules. (Our            Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)
Listen: In our monthly roundup of the best new podcasts, you’ll find “The Secret Lives of Black Women” and “Tabloid: The Making of Ivanka Trump.”
Watch: Kia Stevens, the wrestler-turned-actor, portrays a bizarro version of her own life in Netflix’s “GLOW.”
Smarter Living: Feeling uninspired at work? Our Smarter Living newsletter suggests reminding yourself that you make an impact. Try dividing big goals into smaller ones, where achievement will be easier to see. If all else fails, take a break to do something you love.
(Every week, the Smarter Living editor, Tim Herrera, emails readers with advice for living a better, more fulfilling life. Sign up here.)
And now for the Back Story on …
Roller derby
The history of roller derby is one of booms and busts — and it’s booming again: Some 463 leagues have started in 33 countries over the past 15 years.
Roller derby was born at the Chicago Coliseum on Aug. 13, 1935, when an event promoter named Leo Seltzer created the Transcontinental Derby, a monthlong event with coed teams skating a total of 57,000 laps — the equivalent of the 2,700-mile width of North America.
The sport got another lift in the 1960s, when Mr. Seltzer’s son, Jerry, started airing the games on local TV stations. That’s when the real drama began, as spectators flocked to the collisions and feuds that took place as the “jammer” for each team tried to score points by passing opponents, and the “blockers” tried to hold them back.
The most recent revival began in 2001, when a group of women in Austin, Tex., restarted the sport with a decidedly feminist bent, and a bevy of complicated tactics and terms. This year’s            championship playoffs for the Women’s Flat Track Derby Association start next month.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris
Thank you
Melina Delkic helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson and Eleanor Stanford provided the break from the news. Victoria Shannon, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach us at briefing@nytimes.com. 
P.S.
 We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the Jeffrey Epstein case.
 Here’s today’s            Mini Crossword, and a clue: A fairy leaves you money for it (five letters).            You can find all our puzzles here. 
 Our 52 Places traveler, Sebastian Modak, is halfway through his yearlong trek.            Submit your questions about his experience so far.
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 14, 2019


End of Document


Immigration, Endangered Wildlife Act, Jeffery Epstein: Your Monday Evening Briefing
The New York Times 
August 12, 2019 Monday 18:36 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1237 words
Byline: Victoria Shannon and Erin Kelly
Highlight: Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
Body


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. New limits for legal immigrants.
The Trump administration is making it harder for legal immigrants who rely on public aid, like food stamps and subsidized housing, to get permanent legal status.
The U.S. wants immigrants who can support themselves, not those who “depend on public resources to meet their needs,” according to a new rule championed by the Trump adviser Stephen Miller and announced by Kenneth Cuccinelli, above, the acting director of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.
It is not supposed to apply to people who already have green cards, refugees and asylum-seekers, or pregnant women and children, but immigration advocates said many might forgo aid to preserve their chances of a green card. They plan to sue to block the regulation, set to go into effect in two months.
_____
2. A rollback of wildlife protections.
The administration plans changes to the Endangered Species Act that will make it harder to consider the effects of climate change, most likely shrink critical habitats and, for the first time, include economic assessments.
The new rules will go into effect 30 days after appearing in the Federal Register, expected this week.
Interior Secretary David Bernhardt said the changes modernize the act and increase its transparency, and has in the past described the act’s “unnecessary regulatory burden” on companies.
Since President Richard M. Nixon signed it into law in 1973, the act has been credited with preserving the bald eagle, the grizzly bear, the American alligator and other species.
_____
3. “Serious irregularities.”
Attorney General William Barr sharply criticized the management of the federal jail in Manhattan where the financier Jeffrey Epstein was found dead on Saturday.
In a speech at a conference in New Orleans for the Grand Lodge Fraternal Order of Police, above, Mr. Barr vowed to “get to the bottom” of what happened.
Mr. Epstein, who was awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges, had been removed from suicide watch. We learned that only one of the two people guarding him during the hours of his apparent suicide normally worked as a correctional officer at the understaffed jail.
Shortly after his death, it seemed that anyone with 10 fingers and a Twitter account was providing, promoting or questioning a conspiracy theory. Among them: President Trump, Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York and MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough.
And our business columnist tells of his 90-minute interview with Mr. Epstein last year, in which the financier told him he had dirt on powerful people.
_____
4. Protesters swarmed Hong Kong’s airport.
More than 150 flights in and out of one of the world’s busiest airports were canceled after thousands of antigovernment protesters overran the terminals. The disruptions are expected to continue Tuesday.
The demonstration, following a three-day sit-in over the weekend, came in response to what protesters saw as heavy-handed police tactics at protests elsewhere in the city.
The central government in Beijing reiterated its support for the Hong Kong police and condemned the actions of protesters on Sunday, including the use of a gasoline bomb.
Here’s what travelers need to know.
_____
5. Can Ebola be stopped? Maybe.
Two experimental antibody-based treatments for the infection raging in the Democratic Republic of Congo are raising hopes the disastrous epidemic can soon be stopped.
In both, monoclonal antibodies are infused intravenously and attach themselves to the outside of the virus, preventing it from invading the patient’s cells. “Now we can say that 90 percent can come out of treatment cured,” one scientist said.
More than 1,800 people have died in the epidemic. The new treatments will be offered to the 1,000 others infected.
_____
6. What was that radioactive blast in Russia?
American intelligence officials are racing to understand a mysterious explosion off northern Russia last week that killed at least seven people.
Officials at a Russian research institute confirmed only that a small nuclear reactor had exploded during an experiment and that the authorities were investigating the cause. The secretive response set off anxiety in nearby cities and towns.
U.S. intelligence officials say they suspect the blast involved the failure of a prototype of what NATO calls the SSC-X-9 Skyfall, a cruise missile that Vladimir Putin, above last year, said could reach any corner of the earth because it is partially powered by a small nuclear reactor.
_____
7. A new zeal for banning assault weapons.
Leading Democrats are increasingly pushing the idea of reviving the ban on assault weapons, which Republicans let expire in 2004.
Given Republican opposition, a ban has little chance before 2020, but momentum after the Texas and Ohio mass shootings has thrust the issue onto the presidential campaign agenda. Above, a voter registration table in El Paso last week.
Former Vice President Joe Biden, an architect of the original 1994 ban, and at least six other Democratic candidates are embracing it. “We have to get these weapons of war off our streets,” Mr. Biden wrote in an Op-Ed.
_____
8. Taliban-U.S. peace talks near end.
An agreement with the Taliban on pulling U.S. troops out of Afghanistan could come as early as Tuesday — or could be delayed, perhaps for weeks.
One factor is widely seen as giving the Taliban an edge in the talks: Afghanistan’s security forces are in their worst state in years, according to local military commanders and civilian officials. Above, a new class of recruits in July.
In most major battlegrounds, the bulk of the regular Afghan forces are still holed up in fortified bases and outposts, leaving offensive operations to small numbers of Afghan and American Special Operations soldiers backed by air power.
_____
9. “Imagine searching the side of a volcano at night with a flashlight.”
That’s how Robert Ballard, who discovered the Titanic in 1985, describes his latest adventure: trying to locate the plane Amelia Earhart was flying when she disappeared in the Pacific in 1937.
His quest is spurred by a digitally enhanced image of a 1937 photo of the reef of tiny Nikumaroro Island. He and other experts are convinced it shows the landing gear from Earhart’s plane.
But he thinks the plane itself may have slipped down the island’s base: a steep, craggy 10,000-foot underwater mountain.
_____
10. And finally, the peak of the Perseids.
The Perseid meteor shower puts on its best show of the year tonight, with up to 200 shooting stars an hour zooming through the atmosphere at 133,000 m.p.h. and bursting about 60 miles overhead.
Tonight’s meteors were ejected by Comet Swift-Tuttle in 1862 or earlier. Debris from its more recent pass on its route around the sun, in 1992, is still a long way from Earth’s orbit.
If the weather or the moon — which happens to be close to full tonight — obscure your view, there’s always NASA’s usual livestream, and more chances on nonpeak nights through Aug. 26.
Have a starlit evening.
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY Lam Yik Fei for The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 13, 2019


End of Document


Texas Democrats Urge G.O.P. to 'Eradicate' Incendiary Rhetoric
The New York Times
August 24, 2019 Saturday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13
Length: 1692 words
Byline: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and DAVID MONTGOMERY; Manny Fernandez reported from Houston, and David Montgomery reported from Austin, Tex.
Body


HOUSTON -- Typically, a campaign plea from a Texas governor calling for fellow Republicans to ''defend Texas'' from illegal immigration and ''take matters into our own hands'' would be met with a collective yawn. Such appeals have been commonplace in Republican-controlled Texas, where taking a hard line on immigration is a given.
But after a mass shooting in El Paso earlier this month, these are anything but typical times in Texas politics. 
  A fund-raising letter sent out by Gov. Greg Abbott's campaign the day before the shooting at an El Paso Walmart has angered Democrats and illustrated the lingering political fallout from the deadliest anti-Latino attack in modern American history.
  On Aug. 3, a white, 21-year-old gunman opened fire at the Walmart in the border city of El Paso, killing 22 people in a hate-filled attack targeting what he called ''the Hispanic community.'' In the campaign letter dated Aug. 2, Mr. Abbott sought to rally potential donors by writing, ''If we're going to defend Texas, we'll need to take matters into our own hands.'' The word ''defend'' was written in bold, underlined and in all caps.
  The letter described the large number of undocumented immigrants crossing the border into Texas, called out both parties for refusing to work with President Trump to secure the border and warned that liberals were trying to transform Texas through illegal immigration and ''turn Texas blue.''
  ''Doing nothing will only lead to disaster for Texas, both economically and politically,'' the letter read.
  Leaders of the Texas Democratic Party called the letter racist, anti-Latino and anti-immigrant and said it was filled with the kind of rhetoric that fueled the hatred of the El Paso gunman. The Dallas-area man charged in the attack, Patrick Crusius, had posted an online anti-Latino manifesto minutes before the shooting, declaring that he was acting in response to ''the Hispanic invasion of Texas'' and fears that the Hispanic population in Texas would ''make us a Democrat stronghold.''
  The El Paso shooting has exposed long-simmering tensions between the state's white Republican leadership and the Hispanic lawmakers and activists who have accused them for years of racist power plays. For years, the largely white Texas Republican leadership has worried that the increasing Hispanic population in the state will loosen their grip on power, and has described the problems of illegal immigration at the Texas border in alarmist terms.
  And it has been more than talk: Texas Republicans have pushed to ban sanctuary cities as part of a so-called show-me-your-papers law, passed in 2017, that Democrats called anti-Latino. The Republican leadership also launched a much-debated and flawed effort to purge noncitizens from the voter rolls. Numerous voters with Hispanic surnames who are citizens were caught up in the purge.
  But Texas has a complicated political geography that is not always defined by race or ethnicity. While many of the state's most prominent Latino politicians are Democrats, Republicans in state leadership have long enjoyed a measure of support from Latinos, who have often voted conservative on issues such as abortion and even border security.
  Mr. Abbott, a former Texas attorney general who is in a wheelchair after being paralyzed below the waist in a 1984 accident, has enjoyed widespread support among Hispanic Texans, particularly those who live in the Rio Grande Valley region at the border. Last year, Mr. Abbott won re-election and defeated his Democratic opponent, Lupe Valdez, the Latina former sheriff of Dallas County, by more than 1 million votes. Mr. Abbott won about 44 percent of the Hispanic vote.
  His wife is the granddaughter of Mexican immigrants and the state's first Hispanic first lady. The governor's chief of staff, Luis Saenz, is the first Latino chief of staff to run the governor's office in the history of the state.
  At the same time, Mr. Abbott has backed, and defended in court, a series of voting, redistricting and anti-sanctuary-cities laws that Latino leaders have called anti-Hispanic. Since 2011, federal judges have found in a series of court rulings that the Republican-dominated Texas Legislature intentionally discriminated against Hispanics and blacks.
  The issues raised by the El Paso attack have prompted almost everyone to re-examine traditional politics -- and the political mailer that went out from the governor has been especially contentious.
  ''This is not a game,'' Manny Garcia, the executive director of the Texas Democratic Party, said in a statement about the governor's campaign mailer. ''It's long past time for Republicans to eradicate white supremacist language from their discourse -- people are dying.''
  State Representative Ramon Romero Jr., a Democrat who in 2014 became the first Latino elected to the Texas Legislature from Fort Worth's majority-white Tarrant County, said the anti-immigrant rhetoric in the state has been too divisive for too long.
  ''I think if the shooter's manifesto would not have come out, it wouldn't have been so glaringly obvious,'' Mr. Romero said. ''I've said for a long time that I felt this was a dangerous conversation that was going to eventually rear its ugly head. Any criticism that the governor has received has been absolutely warranted, and he should be the first one to say, 'I made a mistake.'''
  A spokesman for Mr. Abbott declined to comment.
  If there was any Republican criticism of the governor's mailer, it was muted. Some Republicans expressed outrage that Democrats were branding the letter as racist. They said the letter was not anti-immigrant but anti-illegal immigration, and that it was wrong for the Texas Democratic Party to imply that opposing illegal immigration was racist.
  Matt Mackowiak, a Republican consultant who is the chairman of the Travis County Republican Party in Austin, said he found nothing offensive about the governor's letter. ''Texas has invested billions of dollars and deployed thousands of personnel to the southern border to do a job that the federal government's not willing to do,'' Mr. Mackiowiak said. ''I read the mailer. I didn't see anything in there that was objectionable.''
  The El Paso gunman echoed talking points used in the past both by Mr. Trump and by Texas Republicans who have called for stronger measures against illegal immigration.
  The lieutenant governor, Dan Patrick, was quoted in The Texas Observer in 2006, when he was running for a State Senate seat, describing undocumented immigrants as invaders and saying that the main ''problem we are facing is the silent invasion of the border. We are being overrun. It is imperiling our safety.''
  The notion that red Texas must be fiercely defended from becoming more and more blue has become a common theme at Texas Republican events. At a Houston rally for Mr. Trump last year, Mr. Patrick invoked the revered defenders of the Alamo in urging the crowd to defeat Beto O'Rourke, a former Democratic congressman from El Paso, in his bid for the Senate.
  ''He does not represent the Texas values that are ingrained in us, because we all have the DNA of Crockett and Bowie and Travis in our hearts and souls,'' Mr. Patrick told a cheering audience. ''We will never give up Texas!''
  A spokesman for Mr. Patrick did not respond to requests for comment.
  Democrats and some political analysts are calling for Texas Republicans to back away from the language used in Mr. Abbott's campaign letter and acknowledge the role that anti-immigrant rhetoric may have played in the attack.
  ''Our Texas lieutenant governor describes immigration as an 'illegal invasion,''' said Greg Casar, who is a Hispanic member of the Austin City Council and whose district is nearly 70 percent Latino. ''And the terrorist in El Paso said he was fighting the 'Hispanic invasion.' When our leaders in Texas campaign on 'Show Me Your Papers' laws, when they purge voter rolls -- it's not just a racist dog whistle. It's a bullhorn.''
  El Paso's Democratic congresswoman, Representative Veronica Escobar, said Mr. Abbott's words have incited hatred of immigrants.
  ''These words have consequences, and give fuel to those whose hatred turns to violence,'' she said in a statement. ''It isn't immigrants that make communities like mine unsafe; it's the hateful and divisive rhetoric and policies of politicians like Greg Abbott, Dan Patrick and Donald Trump.''
  One white Tea Party leader in the Fort Worth region has been criticized for social-media posts that seemed to coincide with the gunman's complaint that whites were being culturally replaced by Hispanics.
  Fred McCarty, the president of the NE Tarrant Tea Party PAC, the fund-raising arm of one of the most active tea party groups in Texas, responded to the El Paso attack on his Facebook page in the days after the shooting. ''You're not going to demographically replace a once proud, strong people without getting blowback.'' Mr. McCarty wrote. In another post, he wrote: ''Imagine flooding a place with foreign peoples to the point that the native population will become a minority. Then imagine being shocked at the strife and hostility that results. Imagine.''
  Asked to respond to subsequent criticisms of his posts, Mr. McCarty defended his remarks, saying in a statement that his views about immigration have widespread support among Republicans. ''I've heard from tons of them,'' his statement said. ''Most Republicans agree with me. It's seventy percent of Republicans who want every illegal alien deported and that number is growing daily.''
  Still, the political blowback to the governor's mailer has led many to call for a rethinking of politics as usual.
  ''They have to be more careful with that language,'' James Riddlesperger, a political-science professor at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, said of the governor's letter. ''Moving forward, I wouldn't be surprised if we'll see them back off of the rhetoric a little bit. No politician in Texas wants to be in a position where if a crazy person acts in a racist way that anything that they have said could be interpreted as encouraging that kind of behavior.''

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/23/us/texas-latinos-abbott-el-paso.html

Graphic

 
PHOTOS: Gov. Greg Abbott, right, after the shooting in El Paso, has drawn the ire of Democrats for a fund-raising letter sent by his campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL ANGEL JUAREZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 High school students paid their respects this month at a memorial to the victims of the shooting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALLA KESSLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)       

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document


Justice Department Newsletter Included Extremist Blog Post
The New York Times 
August 23, 2019 Friday 09:40 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: US
Length: 1051 words
Byline: Christine Hauser
Highlight: A national union for the judges said the blog post “directly attacks sitting immigration judges with racial and ethnically tinged slurs.”
Body


A national union for the judges said the blog post “directly attacks sitting immigration judges with racial and ethnically tinged slurs.” 
A Justice Department newsletter that is distributed to federal immigration judges and other employees contained a blog post this week from an extremist group that included an anti-Semitic reference, a national union for the judges said.
The briefing is sent out daily by the department’s Executive Office for Immigration Review, which is responsible for adjudicating the nation’s immigration cases. 
On Monday, the newsletter summarized and linked to a post from VDare, a website that regularly publishes white nationalists, according to the 440-member union, the National Association of Immigration Judges. The Southern Poverty Law Center            classifies VDare as an anti-immigration hate website.
The VDare post described the Justice Department’s recent efforts to decertify the judges’ union. It published photographs of two judges, one of Iranian descent and one of Pakistani descent, and referred to them as “kritarch.” 
That term has historically been used in a non-pejorative way to describe “rule by judges,” but more recently it has been co-opted by white nationalists and anti-Semitic extremists, according to the Anti-Defamation League. 
On Thursday, Judge A. Ashley Tabaddor, the union’s president and the judge of Iranian descent who was pictured in the VDare post, wrote to James McHenry, the director of the immigration review office, to protest the newsletter’s inclusion of the post, saying it “directly attacks sitting immigration judges with racial and ethnically tinged slurs.” 
“VDare’s use of the term in a pejorative manner casts Jewish history in a negative light as an anti-Semitic trope of Jews seeking power and control,” Judge Tabaddor wrote in the letter, referring to “kritarch.”
Kathryn Mattingly, a spokeswoman for the immigration review office, said on Friday that the office would not renew its contract with the service that provided the newsletter and would stop distributing the briefing to its staff. 
“After a review of our daily news aggregation emails, we have determined that the sampling was over inclusive and contained non-news sources,” she said, adding that the office “strongly condemns anti-Semitism and white nationalism.”
On Friday, Judge Tabbador said she learned about the newsletter from colleagues who were outraged about the link to the white nationalist website.
“If I had sent this, I would be facing serious disciplinary action,” she said. “We get trained about zero tolerance of discriminatory and racist actions.”
On Thursday, the parent union, the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers, also sharply criticized the Justice Department.
“It is shocking and outrageous that a vile, racist attack against distinguished jurists was linked and distributed from an official U.S. government publication,” the union’s president, Paul Shearon, said in a statement. “The Department of Justice is supposed to enforce our nation’s laws against ethnic, racial and religious discrimination, not fan the flames of such hatred.”
Mr. Shearon also urged the Justice Department to apologize to everyone who had received the newsletter, to take steps to ensure no such material would be distributed again in an official federal government publication and to provide appropriate safety and security measures for immigration judges. 
The VDare post also included a photograph of Judge Amiena Khan, the executive vice president of the immigration judges’ union, which has publicly criticized the use of a quota system in immigration court and other attempts to speed up proceedings. 
Judge Tabaddor and Judge Khan have spoken out repeatedly against what they say is an attempt to turn immigration judges from neutral arbiters of the law into law enforcement agents enacting the White House’s policies. They have called for immigration judges to be independent of the Justice Department. 
Aryeh Tuchman, associate director of the Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism, said that “kritarchy” had long been used to describe “rule by judges.”
“There are examples throughout the course of history of societies ruled by judges, with one of the more well-known examples being the land of Israel as described in the Biblical books of Joshua and Judges,” he said in an emailed statement on Friday. 
But he added that it appeared that extremists, “mainly confined to the racist, anti-immigrant site VDare, have co-opted the term to refer to liberal American judges as ‘kritarchs’.” 
That reference is used to convey their “displeasure and belief that these judges are acting independently and without accountability to a form of government — mainly as it pertains to social issues, specifically immigration,” Mr. Tuchman said.
“Many of the extremists on VDare who use this term are in fact anti-Semites, and they may intentionally be using ‘kritarch’ as a way to express their anti-Semitism, but on its own, the term is not self-evidently anti-Semitic,” he said.
The VDare post on Monday also used the word Lügenpresse, which was used by the Nazis to describe what they called the “lying press.”
On Thursday, after the uproar over the news briefing began, VDare wrote on its website that the word “kritarch” meant only “rule by judges” and that it was “strange” that Judge Tabaddor believed the term was meant to be anti-Semitic.
Steven Mains, the chief executive of TECHmis, the company that compiles the news briefings for the immigration review office, said in an interview on Friday that the briefings were cobbled together by his company’s editors from a variety of news sources using key words provided by the department. The 40 or more final choices are not vetted by the Justice Department before being sent to the list of recipients, he said.
“We look at the whole universe of news and provide anything of interest to the Department of Justice,” he said. “They are a very sophisticated audience and they can see if there is an agenda. We don’t censor the news.”
Elisha Brown and Mariel Padilla contributed reporting.
PHOTO: Judge A. Ashley Tabaddor, a federal immigration judge in Los Angeles, was one of the jurists mentioned in the controversial post. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Susan Walsh/Associated Press FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document


A Health Nightmare Near the Border
The New York Times
August 26, 2019 Monday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18
Length: 700 words
Byline: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Body


The key ingredients for an infectious disease outbreak are no secret: people with immune systems that have been weakened by stress and poor nutrition, crammed into close quarters with one another and denied basic hygiene and health care, for extended periods of time. That's why diseases like cholera, dysentery and tuberculosis have long thrived in refugee camps and prisons and among soldiers during wartime.
So federal officials should not be surprised that migrant detention centers along the nation's southern border have become hotbeds of communicable diseases -- with multiple outbreaks of scabies, shingles, lice, mumps, chickenpox and flu logged this year and last. As the Office of Inspector General noted in a July report, these facilities are dangerously overcrowded. Detainees there have not been provided with adequate nutrition, sanitation or health care. And many of them are being held for weeks or months in quarters designed for a 72-hour stay. 
  The report describes horrendous conditions: 88 people crammed into a room meant for 41, detainees forced to go months without a shower or a change of clothes, young children covered in filth for weeks on end. At least six children have died from communicable diseases in these facilities in the past two years.
  At least three of those deaths were related, in part, to flu. Which makes all the more confounding reports from CNBC and other outlets last week that immigration officials have no plans to vaccinate detainees before the coming flu season.
  Confounding, but not surprising -- after all, this is the same administration that argued in court against providing detained migrant children with basic necessities like soap, toothbrushes and sleeping mats; that has failed to provide those same children with adequate schooling, to which they are legally entitled; and that has knowingly sent them to facilities where sexual abuse has been reported.
  This lapse of basic preventive health care in the federal government's own detention centers is particularly cruel, given that children are most susceptible to diseases like flu. It's also deeply unwise. Disease outbreaks have a way of spreading well beyond the populations in which they originate, and flu in particular is much less expensive to prevent than it is to respond to. Nonsensical as this is, there's a painfully familiar calculus at work: Deny migrants or refugees humane treatment, including basic medical care, and then when they fall ill blame them for ''bringing disease'' into the country.
  A spokesman for United States Customs and Border Protection says that the agency has not historically administered vaccines and that a vaccination program in the detention centers is neither feasible nor necessary, because stays at these facilities are meant to be short-term. The spokesman also notes that the agency has increased medical staff from 20 to 200 in the past year.
  But on Wednesday, the Department of Homeland Security announced proposed regulations that would abolish the 20-day limit on detaining migrant families that's been in place since 1997, allowing the federal government to hold them indefinitely. The proposed rule changes, which would gut what's known as the Flores settlement, also would undo several policies meant to protect the human rights of detained migrant children. For instance, attorneys would no longer have guaranteed access to the detention centers where their clients are held.
  The proposed regulations were published in the federal register on Friday and could take effect after 60 days -- though they will nearly certainly face a protracted legal challenge. One hopes that human rights and human decency will prevail and the Flores settlement will stay in place. In the meantime, federal officials would do well to implement a comprehensive health care program at the detention centers that includes a focus on disease prevention.
  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/25/opinion/migrants-flu-vaccine.html

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Joe Arpaio Says He Will Run Again for Maricopa County Sheriff
The New York Times 
August 25, 2019 Sunday 02:36 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: US
Length: 664 words
Byline: Mihir Zaveri
Highlight: Mr. Arpaio’s long and polarizing career has included a conviction for criminal contempt, a pardon from President Trump and a failed bid for the United States Senate.
Body


Mr. Arpaio’s long and polarizing career has included a conviction for criminal contempt, a pardon from President Trump and a failed bid for the United States Senate.
Joe Arpaio, a former sheriff in Arizona who built a national reputation as an immigration hard-liner, said on Sunday that he would run again for his old office, the latest turn in a long and polarizing career that included a conviction for criminal contempt, a pardon from President Trump and an unsuccessful bid last year for a Senate seat.
Mr. Arpaio, a Republican, was first elected sheriff in 1992 and was defeated by a Democrat in 2016. If elected in 2020, it would be his seventh term in office.
“Thousands want me to run for Sheriff,” Mr. Arpaio, 87, said on Sunday in a post on Twitter announcing his candidacy. “Ready for bruising, bitter campaign. Never back down.”
During his tenure as sheriff, Mr. Arpaio crusaded against illegal immigration. 
He was repeatedly criticized. In 2011, the Justice Department said Mr. Arpaio led an office with “a pervasive culture of discriminatory bias against Latinos.”
A federal judge ruled in 2013 that Mr. Arpaio and his deputies violated the constitutional rights of Latinos.
Mr. Arpaio was convicted of criminal contempt in July 2017 after he refused to stop detaining undocumented immigrants. 
A month later, he was pardoned by Mr. Trump. A White House statement said at the time that Mr. Arpaio had given “years of admirable service to our nation” and called him a “worthy candidate for a presidential pardon.”
In a tweet, Mr. Trump called Mr. Arpaio “an American patriot.”  
“He kept Arizona safe!” the president said.
Reached by phone on Sunday evening, Mr. Arpaio declined to comment, saying he first needed to consult his lawyer.
Mr. Arpaio was also criticized for harsh conditions in the county jail. Inmates were sometimes            forced to stay in outdoor tents under the hot sun (also known as Tent City), wear pink underwear or work on chain gangs. 
He was a prominent member of the so-called birther movement that aimed to investigate President Barack Obama’s birth certificate. In 2012, Mr. Arpaio sent a posse to Hawaii to check on the birth certificate.
In January 2018, Mr. Arpaio kicked off a bid to replace Senator Jeff Flake, a Republican who abandoned his re-election campaign after coming under fire from Mr. Trump. 
Mr. Arpaio finished third in the Republican primary contest with almost 19 percent of the vote, losing to Martha McSally.
Arizona, for decades a Republican stronghold, has become more evenly divided politically over the past decade. Some prominent conservatives viewed Mr. Arpaio as too divisive to win the Senate seat.
Mr. Arpaio’s announcement on Sunday was met with criticism.
“President Trump might’ve pardoned him, but those who had families and communities destroyed by his unlawful tactics have not,” Alessandra Soler, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Arizona, said in a statement. “Joe Arpaio is a racist — and he should never hold public office again.”
Mr. Arpaio pointed out that his announcement on Sunday came on the second anniversary of Mr. Trump’s pardon (he also said it was his wife’s birthday).
Mr. Arpaio said that, if elected, he would bring back his “popular jail policies,” including Tent City, and “continue to enforce all Arizona laws that deal with drug trafficking, sex trafficking and other crimes associated with the border and illegal immigration.”
“The last four years have proven to be a time of lost opportunities to continue the kind of tough policing this county needs,” Mr. Arpaio said in the announcement. “Once back in office, I will use my position to restore pride to our law enforcement ranks, not only here, in the fourth-largest county in America, but across the country.”
PHOTO: Joe Arpaio, a former sheriff of Maricopa, Ariz., at a “Make America Great Again” rally in Mesa, Arizona, in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Caitlin O&#39;Hara for The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Joe Arpaio Says He Will Run Again for Maricopa County Sheriff
The New York Times 
August 25, 2019 Sunday 05:50 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: US
Length: 664 words
Byline: Mihir Zaveri
Highlight: Mr. Arpaio’s long and polarizing career has included a conviction for criminal contempt, a pardon from President Trump and a failed bid for the United States Senate.
Body


Mr. Arpaio’s long and polarizing career has included a conviction for criminal contempt, a pardon from President Trump and a failed bid for the United States Senate.
Joe Arpaio, a former sheriff in Arizona who built a national reputation as an immigration hard-liner, said on Sunday that he would run again for his old office, the latest turn in a long and polarizing career that included a conviction for criminal contempt, a pardon from President Trump and an unsuccessful bid last year for a Senate seat.
Mr. Arpaio, a Republican, was first elected sheriff in 1992 and was defeated by a Democrat in 2016. If elected in 2020, it would be his seventh term in office.
“Thousands want me to run for Sheriff,” Mr. Arpaio, 87, said on Sunday in a post on Twitter announcing his candidacy. “Ready for bruising, bitter campaign. Never back down.”
During his tenure as sheriff, Mr. Arpaio crusaded against illegal immigration. 
He was repeatedly criticized. In 2011, the Justice Department said Mr. Arpaio led an office with “a pervasive culture of discriminatory bias against Latinos.”
A federal judge ruled in 2013 that Mr. Arpaio and his deputies violated the constitutional rights of Latinos.
Mr. Arpaio was convicted of criminal contempt in July 2017 after he refused to stop detaining undocumented immigrants. 
A month later, he was pardoned by Mr. Trump. A White House statement said at the time that Mr. Arpaio had given “years of admirable service to our nation” and called him a “worthy candidate for a presidential pardon.”
In a tweet, Mr. Trump called Mr. Arpaio “an American patriot.”  
“He kept Arizona safe!” the president said.
Reached by phone on Sunday evening, Mr. Arpaio declined to comment, saying he first needed to consult his lawyer.
Mr. Arpaio was also criticized for harsh conditions in the county jail. Inmates were sometimes            forced to stay in outdoor tents under the hot sun (also known as Tent City), wear pink underwear or work on chain gangs. 
He was a prominent member of the so-called birther movement that aimed to investigate President Barack Obama’s birth certificate. In 2012, Mr. Arpaio sent a posse to Hawaii to check on the birth certificate.
In January 2018, Mr. Arpaio kicked off a bid to replace Senator Jeff Flake, a Republican who abandoned his re-election campaign after coming under fire from Mr. Trump. 
Mr. Arpaio finished third in the Republican primary contest with almost 19 percent of the vote, losing to Martha McSally.
Arizona, for decades a Republican stronghold, has become more evenly divided politically over the past decade. Some prominent conservatives viewed Mr. Arpaio as too divisive to win the Senate seat.
Mr. Arpaio’s announcement on Sunday was met with criticism.
“President Trump might’ve pardoned him, but those who had families and communities destroyed by his unlawful tactics have not,” Alessandra Soler, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Arizona, said in a statement. “Joe Arpaio is a racist — and he should never hold public office again.”
Mr. Arpaio pointed out that his announcement on Sunday came on the second anniversary of Mr. Trump’s pardon (he also said it was his wife’s birthday).
Mr. Arpaio said that, if elected, he would bring back his “popular jail policies,” including Tent City, and “continue to enforce all Arizona laws that deal with drug trafficking, sex trafficking and other crimes associated with the border and illegal immigration.”
“The last four years have proven to be a time of lost opportunities to continue the kind of tough policing this county needs,” Mr. Arpaio said in the announcement. “Once back in office, I will use my position to restore pride to our law enforcement ranks, not only here, in the fourth-largest county in America, but across the country.”
PHOTO: Joe Arpaio, a former sheriff of Maricopa, Ariz., at a “Make America Great Again” rally in Mesa, Arizona, in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Caitlin O&#39;Hara for The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Joe Arpaio Says He Will Run Again for Maricopa County Sheriff
The New York Times 
August 25, 2019 Sunday 23:06 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: US
Length: 660 words
Byline: Mihir Zaveri
Highlight: Mr. Arpaio’s long and polarizing career has included a conviction for criminal contempt, a pardon from President Trump and a failed bid for the United States Senate.
Body


Mr. Arpaio’s long and polarizing career has included a conviction for criminal contempt, a pardon from President Trump and a failed bid for the United States Senate.
Joe Arpaio, a former sheriff in Arizona who built a national reputation as an immigration hard-liner, said on Sunday that he would run again for his old office, the latest turn in a long and polarizing career that included a conviction for criminal contempt, a pardon from President Trump and an unsuccessful bid last year for a Senate seat.
Mr. Arpaio, a Republican, was first elected sheriff in 1992 and was defeated by a Democrat in 2016. If elected in 2020, it would be his seventh term in office.
“Thousands want me to run for Sheriff,” Mr. Arpaio, 87, said on Sunday in a post on Twitter announcing his candidacy. “Ready for bruising, bitter campaign. Never back down.”
During his tenure as sheriff, Mr. Arpaio crusaded against illegal immigration. 
He was repeatedly criticized. In 2011, the Justice Department said Mr. Arpaio led an office with “a pervasive culture of discriminatory bias against Latinos.”
A federal judge ruled in 2013 that Mr. Arpaio and his deputies violated the constitutional rights of Latinos.
Mr. Arpaio was convicted of criminal contempt in July 2017 after he refused to stop detaining undocumented immigrants. 
A month later, he was pardoned by Mr. Trump. A White House statement said at the time that Mr. Arpaio had given “years of admirable service to our nation” and called him a “worthy candidate for a presidential pardon.”
In a tweet, Mr. Trump called Mr. Arpaio “an American patriot.”  
“He kept Arizona safe!” the president said.
Mr. Arpaio’s campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Sunday evening.
Mr. Arpaio was also criticized for harsh conditions in the county jail. Inmates were sometimes            forced to stay in outdoor tents under the hot sun (also known as Tent City), wear pink underwear or work on chain gangs. 
He was a prominent member of the so-called birther movement that aimed to investigate President Barack Obama’s birth certificate. In 2012, Mr. Arpaio sent a posse to Hawaii to check on the birth certificate.
In January 2018, Mr. Arpaio kicked off a bid to replace Senator Jeff Flake, a Republican who abandoned his re-election campaign after coming under fire from Mr. Trump. 
Mr. Arpaio finished third in the Republican primary contest with almost 19 percent of the vote, losing to Martha McSally.
Arizona, for decades a Republican stronghold, has become more evenly divided politically over the past decade. Some prominent conservatives viewed Mr. Arpaio as too divisive to win the Senate seat.
Mr. Arpaio’s announcement on Sunday was met with criticism.
“President Trump might’ve pardoned him, but those who had families and communities destroyed by his unlawful tactics have not,” Alessandra Soler, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Arizona, said in a statement. “Joe Arpaio is a racist — and he should never hold public office again.”
Mr. Arpaio pointed out that his announcement on Sunday came on the second anniversary of Mr. Trump’s pardon (he also said it was his wife’s birthday).
Mr. Arpaio said that, if elected, he would bring back his “popular jail policies,” including Tent City, and “continue to enforce all Arizona laws that deal with drug trafficking, sex trafficking and other crimes associated with the border and illegal immigration.”
“The last four years have proven to be a time of lost opportunities to continue the kind of tough policing this county needs,” Mr. Arpaio said in the announcement. “Once back in office, I will use my position to restore pride to our law enforcement ranks, not only here, in the fourth-largest county in America, but across the country.”
PHOTO: Joe Arpaio, a former sheriff of Maricopa, Ariz., at a “Make America Great Again” rally in Mesa, Arizona, in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Caitlin O&#39;Hara for The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document

Date and Time: Monday, August 26, 2019 8:52:00 AM EDT
Job Number: 95794558
Documents (10)
1. Republicans Are Studying Obama’s Campaign Playbook
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
2. Republicans Are Studying Obama’s Campaign Playbook
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
3. The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity;Social Studies
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
4. The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity;Social Studies
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
5. The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity;Social Studies
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
6. The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity;Social Studies
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
7. Trade War, Andrew Luck, U.S. Open: Your Monday Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
8. Trade War, Andrew Luck, U.S. Open: Your Monday Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
9. Your Monday Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
10. Your Monday Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times


Republicans Are Studying Obama’s Campaign Playbook
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 06:00 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION
Length: 1908 words
Byline: Joy Cushman
Highlight: More Democratic elites should do the same, and do it now.
Body


More Democratic elites should do the same, and do it now. 
Before Republicans send their organizers into early primary states, the organizers reportedly must read and pass a test on “           Groundbreakers,” the story of how Barack Obama revolutionized campaigning by putting his faith in hundreds of thousands of volunteers. 
I was a top organizer in his 2008 campaign and trained thousands of the campaign’s staff members. I and the book’s authors fear that the wealthy elites on the left have less respect than ever before for the strategies that got Mr. Obama elected. If Democrats want to win in 2020, they must get back to investing in the power of everyday people through organizing. 
Republicans know how President Obama won, yet there is a contentious debate among progressives about how to run campaigns. One side says you engage your most excited supporters, organizing them into local leadership teams and helping them host trainings, house parties and voter registration drives so that they can build support and gather accurate data about their neighborhoods. 
This creates the capacity for millions of authentic, person-to-person conversations about families’ experiences, and their hopes and fears — the kinds of conversations that can expand an electorate, energize a base and demobilize the opposition. Data and technology are tools to improve this work, not the machinery for controlling people.
The other side, louder and better funded, says that data, technology and analytics should drive campaign strategies and voter outreach programs. So campaigns hire tech companies to create lists of potential supporters based on algorithms and statistical modeling. And they develop apps through which supporters are meant to blast, but not actually engage, their social networks. Staff members and volunteers parachute into communities to knock on doors and recite poll-tested scripts.
Over the past decade, the party elites — consultants, strategists and donors — have caught the data-and-analytics fever and largely abandoned organizing. This has meant that entire neighborhoods have been politically redlined out of engagement in our most fundamental democratic practice. 
Those of us who have spent our lives talking to regular folks on campaigns now walk around neighborhoods with lists created by someone at a computer far away. We have skipped many doors and missed entire families because the data experts didn’t have addresses or phone numbers for poor people, young people, people of color or people who moved a lot — many of those who carried Barack Obama to victory.
Going into 2020, Democrats cannot fall into the trap of being overly seduced by shiny tech-only tricks. They must get back to the hard work of pounding the pavement to organize the people who already want to vote for them. That’s how we’ll create the power to build a movement that attracts others. In fact, data from 2016 and 2018 show that organizing increases voter turnout more than any other single outreach method, including mail, TV and digital advertisements, and twice as much as contact from a stranger.
Part of the reason the debate has unfolded this way is because the story that took hold about how Barack Obama won, and has since permeated the voting industry, is that sophisticated data, technology and analytics twice won him the White House, not organizing or volunteers. That a few dozen tech nerds in the Chicago headquarters tipped the campaign to victory. This story, and the realignment of progressive interests and infrastructure around it, has baffled me and other top campaigners.
People won Mr. Obama’s campaigns. From the black beauticians in South Carolina to the white and black retirees in Pennsylvania to the Latinx supporters in Nevada, hundreds of thousands of volunteers knocked on doors and made calls from the primaries through the general elections. And Barack Obama saw them, spoke to them and loved them.
As the primary campaign heated up in 2007, my colleague Jeremy Bird and I trained and coached organizers in South Carolina to tell their own family stories and to identify community leaders by asking them to host meetings in their homes with their friends and family, to build and train volunteer leadership teams and to equip those teams to make strategic decisions about how to engage voters in their neighborhoods.
The strategy soon paid off. After an incredible win in the Iowa caucuses, the campaign lost in New Hampshire and Nevada. But on Jan. 26, 2008, the volunteers of South Carolina, who had organized block by block to cover the entire state, delivered the primary to Barack Obama with a 29 percent margin over the runner-up, Hillary Clinton, breathing oxygen into the campaign for the months ahead.
We replicated this experience in Pennsylvania. We registered more than 100,000 new voters in just over a month, shifting the electorate there and organizing an animated base that would deliver the state for Mr. Obama in the general election.
Then in the spring of 2008, the campaign leaders took an extraordinary risk. They allowed a few top organizers to hunker down in Chicago to design a field program that required paid staff to organize our base over the summer — predominantly black and young volunteer activists, as well as white and Latinx people who were proud to support a black candidate. 
We decided to empower and animate our most excited supporters, rather than working around them, or even worse, betraying them in pursuit of the elusive white swing voter. Most other campaigns would have gone straight to paying staff members to knock on unfamiliar doors and make cold calls.
And we won.
So I was surprised when, after the election, I came bright-eyed into a project where I interviewed senior Democratic consultants to help train campaign managers for the midterms. Here’s what they told me: We’re going to have an extraordinary backlash to President Obama’s victories, so we have to double down on likely white voters. After two cycles of terrible midterm losses, this was, again, the narrative after the 2014 elections.
In the winter of 2015, I sat in a room of about 400 political operatives where Stan Greenberg, a pollster for Bill Clinton, made that very argument from the main stage. His polling data sliced and diced white people in myriad ways: rural/urban/exurban, married/unmarried, college educated/non-college educated, seeking the magic formula that would deliver victory in 2016. But a single spreadsheet column — “People of Color” — had lumped together black, Latinx, Asian-American, Pacific Islander and Native American voters.
This problematic love affair between the analytics masterminds and those on the left focused almost exclusively on white voters is suffocating the Democrats’ base from the top down. As we get closer to the 2020 election, this is the mantra of many progressive political elites and labor groups, epitomized most by Third Way, a centrist think tank, and by            Catalist, the dominant data provider for the Democrats and the left’s independent sector.
We’re so afraid of the leadership required to shape a new future that we’re turning on our own base. This retreat is augmented by a hunger for technocratic control that has only delivered further failure. The programs that organize data have come to control the programs that organize people as we eke out marginal returns and obsess over “votes per $1,000 spent.” But remember that Donald Trump won with only a fraction of the resources of Hillary Clinton. He knew he had to animate his own base and was good at doing it. 
We will keep losing elections if we continue to campaign this way. In the decade after the 2008 election, Democrats lost more than 1,000 legislative seats in Congress and statehouses using a flawed political formula that targets white suburban and exurban vote flippers with bland policies and a marketing approach to campaigning. 
While the spirit of President Obama’s campaigns has withered inside the elite party establishment, it thrives in independent political groups because organizing has been the spirit of social movements for generations.
Young Latinx organizers with LUCHA and other groups in Arizona turned the backlash against a racist immigration law into an organizing infrastructure in 2010, registering hundreds of thousands of Latinos, who then ousted from office the legislator who sponsored that bill, and Sheriff Joe Arpaio. They shifted the political terrain so that a Democrat won a Senate seat in 2018. 
In Florida, independent organizing groups worked alongside Desmond Meade and the Florida Rights Restoration Coalition to win a landmark ballot measure last year that restored voting rights to as many as 1.5 million formerly incarcerated people.
Since 2014, black and Latinx organizers worked to elect progressive district attorneys in St. Louis, Philadelphia, Tampa and counties across the country, with the support of Faith in Action Fund and            Color of Change PAC. 
To win in 2020, we must flip the formula on how most strategists and consultants think campaigns are won and instead recognize that an organized and energized base is our most powerful resource, not a liability. That means investing now — not a few weeks before the election — in the development of black, Latinx and youth leaders, as well as hiring consultants and analysts who understand these communities. 
We need to use data and analytics to learn why so many voters of color and young people stayed home in 2016 and to figure out what would persuade them and their networks to vote in 2020. Movement donors and campaigns should fund the organizing (not just the door knocking) that could animate a broader, more engaged electorate at a neighborhood level.
We must abandon “voter propensity scores,” assigned before the election to predict a person’s likelihood to cast a ballot. These scores are like party invitations. If you weren’t invited to or didn’t show up to the last party, you don’t get invited again. Or if you have moved since the last party, so we don’t know whether you’ve ever attended parties, you won’t get one. 
Each candidate ought to build organizing into the DNA of his or her campaign, and the Democratic Party and independent donors should support this effort. That means hiring organizing staff early on and training them to do this work, not just direct voter contact. And campaign headquarters should value their data and experiences from the field as much as those of analysts. 
The kind of politics that puts people first, invests in organizing and delivers material change in people’s lives will always win. But “the Democrats had the playbook and walked away from it,” a Republican official told a reporter. We need to get back to the basics, before Republicans beat us at our own game. 
Joy Cushman (@joycushman) was the organizing director at the New Organizing Institute from 2009 to 2013 and the national campaigns director at Faith in Action from 2013 until recently.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some            tips. And here’s our email:            letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook,            Twitter (@NYTopinion) and            Instagram.
PHOTO: Student volunteers in Ohio on Election Day in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Yana Paskova for The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Republicans Are Studying Obama’s Campaign Playbook
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 06:08 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION
Length: 1908 words
Byline: Joy Cushman
Highlight: More Democratic elites should do the same, and do it now.
Body


More Democratic elites should do the same, and do it now. 
Before Republicans send their organizers into early primary states, the organizers reportedly must read and pass a test on “           Groundbreakers,” the story of how Barack Obama revolutionized campaigning by putting his faith in hundreds of thousands of volunteers. 
I was a top organizer in his 2008 campaign and trained thousands of the campaign’s staff members. I and the book’s authors fear that the wealthy elites on the left have less respect than ever before for the strategies that got Mr. Obama elected. If Democrats want to win in 2020, they must get back to investing in the power of everyday people through organizing. 
Republicans know how President Obama won, yet there is a contentious debate among progressives about how to run campaigns. One side says you engage your most excited supporters, organizing them into local leadership teams and helping them host trainings, house parties and voter registration drives so that they can build support and gather accurate data about their neighborhoods. 
This creates the capacity for millions of authentic, person-to-person conversations about families’ experiences, and their hopes and fears — the kinds of conversations that can expand an electorate, energize a base and demobilize the opposition. Data and technology are tools to improve this work, not the machinery for controlling people.
The other side, louder and better funded, says that data, technology and analytics should drive campaign strategies and voter outreach programs. So campaigns hire tech companies to create lists of potential supporters based on algorithms and statistical modeling. And they develop apps through which supporters are meant to blast, but not actually engage, their social networks. Staff members and volunteers parachute into communities to knock on doors and recite poll-tested scripts.
Over the past decade, the party elites — consultants, strategists and donors — have caught the data-and-analytics fever and largely abandoned organizing. This has meant that entire neighborhoods have been politically redlined out of engagement in our most fundamental democratic practice. 
Those of us who have spent our lives talking to regular folks on campaigns now walk around neighborhoods with lists created by someone at a computer far away. We have skipped many doors and missed entire families because the data experts didn’t have addresses or phone numbers for poor people, young people, people of color or people who moved a lot — many of those who carried Barack Obama to victory.
Going into 2020, Democrats cannot fall into the trap of being overly seduced by shiny tech-only tricks. They must get back to the hard work of pounding the pavement to organize the people who already want to vote for them. That’s how we’ll create the power to build a movement that attracts others. In fact, data from 2016 and 2018 show that organizing increases voter turnout more than any other single outreach method, including mail, TV and digital advertisements, and twice as much as contact from a stranger.
Part of the reason the debate has unfolded this way is because the story that took hold about how Barack Obama won, and has since permeated the voting industry, is that sophisticated data, technology and analytics twice won him the White House, not organizing or volunteers. That a few dozen tech nerds in the Chicago headquarters tipped the campaign to victory. This story, and the realignment of progressive interests and infrastructure around it, has baffled me and other top campaigners.
People won Mr. Obama’s campaigns. From the black beauticians in South Carolina to the white and black retirees in Pennsylvania to the Latinx supporters in Nevada, hundreds of thousands of volunteers knocked on doors and made calls from the primaries through the general elections. And Barack Obama saw them, spoke to them and loved them.
As the primary campaign heated up in 2007, my colleague Jeremy Bird and I trained and coached organizers in South Carolina to tell their own family stories and to identify community leaders by asking them to host meetings in their homes with their friends and family, to build and train volunteer leadership teams and to equip those teams to make strategic decisions about how to engage voters in their neighborhoods.
The strategy soon paid off. After an incredible win in the Iowa caucuses, the campaign lost in New Hampshire and Nevada. But on Jan. 26, 2008, the volunteers of South Carolina, who had organized block by block to cover the entire state, delivered the primary to Barack Obama with a 29 percent margin over the runner-up, Hillary Clinton, breathing oxygen into the campaign for the months ahead.
We replicated this experience in Pennsylvania. We registered more than 100,000 new voters in just over a month, shifting the electorate there and organizing an animated base that would deliver the state for Mr. Obama in the general election.
Then in the spring of 2008, the campaign leaders took an extraordinary risk. They allowed a few top organizers to hunker down in Chicago to design a field program that required paid staff to organize our base over the summer — predominantly black and young volunteer activists, as well as white and Latinx people who were proud to support a black candidate. 
We decided to empower and animate our most excited supporters, rather than working around them, or even worse, betraying them in pursuit of the elusive white swing voter. Most other campaigns would have gone straight to paying staff members to knock on unfamiliar doors and make cold calls.
And we won.
So I was surprised when, after the election, I came bright-eyed into a project where I interviewed senior Democratic consultants to help train campaign managers for the midterms. Here’s what they told me: We’re going to have an extraordinary backlash to President Obama’s victories, so we have to double down on likely white voters. After two cycles of terrible midterm losses, this was, again, the narrative after the 2014 elections.
In the winter of 2015, I sat in a room of about 400 political operatives where Stan Greenberg, a pollster for Bill Clinton, made that very argument from the main stage. His polling data sliced and diced white people in myriad ways: rural/urban/exurban, married/unmarried, college educated/non-college educated, seeking the magic formula that would deliver victory in 2016. But a single spreadsheet column — “People of Color” — had lumped together black, Latinx, Asian-American, Pacific Islander and Native American voters.
This problematic love affair between the analytics masterminds and those on the left focused almost exclusively on white voters is suffocating the Democrats’ base from the top down. As we get closer to the 2020 election, this is the mantra of many progressive political elites and labor groups, epitomized most by Third Way, a centrist think tank, and by            Catalist, the dominant data provider for the Democrats and the left’s independent sector.
We’re so afraid of the leadership required to shape a new future that we’re turning on our own base. This retreat is augmented by a hunger for technocratic control that has only delivered further failure. The programs that organize data have come to control the programs that organize people as we eke out marginal returns and obsess over “votes per $1,000 spent.” But remember that Donald Trump won with only a fraction of the resources of Hillary Clinton. He knew he had to animate his own base and was good at doing it. 
We will keep losing elections if we continue to campaign this way. In the decade after the 2008 election, Democrats lost more than 1,000 legislative seats in Congress and statehouses using a flawed political formula that targets white suburban and exurban vote flippers with bland policies and a marketing approach to campaigning. 
While the spirit of President Obama’s campaigns has withered inside the elite party establishment, it thrives in independent political groups because organizing has been the spirit of social movements for generations.
Young Latinx organizers with LUCHA and other groups in Arizona turned the backlash against a racist immigration law into an organizing infrastructure in 2010, registering hundreds of thousands of Latinos, who then ousted from office the legislator who sponsored that bill, and Sheriff Joe Arpaio. They shifted the political terrain so that a Democrat won a Senate seat in 2018. 
In Florida, independent organizing groups worked alongside Desmond Meade and the Florida Rights Restoration Coalition to win a landmark ballot measure last year that restored voting rights to as many as 1.5 million formerly incarcerated people.
Since 2014, black and Latinx organizers worked to elect progressive district attorneys in St. Louis, Philadelphia, Tampa and counties across the country, with the support of Faith in Action Fund and            Color of Change PAC. 
To win in 2020, we must flip the formula on how most strategists and consultants think campaigns are won and instead recognize that an organized and energized base is our most powerful resource, not a liability. That means investing now — not a few weeks before the election — in the development of black, Latinx and youth leaders, as well as hiring consultants and analysts who understand these communities. 
We need to use data and analytics to learn why so many voters of color and young people stayed home in 2016 and to figure out what would persuade them and their networks to vote in 2020. Movement donors and campaigns should fund the organizing (not just the door knocking) that could animate a broader, more engaged electorate at a neighborhood level.
We must abandon “voter propensity scores,” assigned before the election to predict a person’s likelihood to cast a ballot. These scores are like party invitations. If you weren’t invited to or didn’t show up to the last party, you don’t get invited again. Or if you have moved since the last party, so we don’t know whether you’ve ever attended parties, you won’t get one. 
Each candidate ought to build organizing into the DNA of his or her campaign, and the Democratic Party and independent donors should support this effort. That means hiring organizing staff early on and training them to do this work, not just direct voter contact. And campaign headquarters should value their data and experiences from the field as much as those of analysts. 
The kind of politics that puts people first, invests in organizing and delivers material change in people’s lives will always win. But “the Democrats had the playbook and walked away from it,” a Republican official told a reporter. We need to get back to the basics, before Republicans beat us at our own game. 
Joy Cushman (@joycushman) was the organizing director at the New Organizing Institute from 2009 to 2013 and the national campaigns director at Faith in Action from 2013 until recently.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some            tips. And here’s our email:            letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook,            Twitter (@NYTopinion) and            Instagram.
PHOTO: Student volunteers in Ohio on Election Day in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Yana Paskova for The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity; Social Studies
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 05:10 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: T-MAGAZINE
Length: 3265 words
Byline: Thessaly La Force
Highlight: A new generation that includes Joel Kim Booster and Bowen Yang is redefining old notions — while reminding us how much further the culture has to go.
Body


A new generation that includes Joel Kim Booster and Bowen Yang is redefining old notions — while reminding us how much further the culture has to go.
NOT THAT LONG AGO, my family, which includes my mother and her two siblings — all three of whom are Chinese — went to a comedy show at a well-known nightclub in Manhattan. My aunt and uncle, who live in Long Island, had gone there on an early date decades ago. My mom and her sister were visiting from out of town. The sets weren’t much longer than 10 to 15 minutes, and there must have been four or maybe five comedians in total. None of them were of Asian descent, and yet almost immediately, the Asian jokes started: Asians are bad drivers. Asian men are undesirable. Asian men have small penises. Asian women are good in bed because they’re small and docile. My discomfort was palpable. I was disappointed in what I was witnessing, in the laughter I was hearing around us, but I also wasn’t surprised.
There is an accepted kind of humor when it comes to talking about Asian-Americans — it’s a humor comfortable with its own ignorance, like the bully in the schoolyard who pounces on perceived weaknesses and kicks up dirt for a laugh. These types of jokes often concern Asian men’s masculinity, or lack thereof — or the Asian man’s helplessness in life, his neediness, his foolishness, his greed, his feminine demeanor and physicality. He is depicted as lecherous but harmless, silly and creepy. These jokes echo two of the most pernicious stereotypes of Asian men ever to appear onscreen in Western culture, even if today they are largely undiscussed: the detective Charlie Chan, who appeared in a series of films from the 1920s to ’80s, who was neutered and servile; and Fu Manchu, an archetypal evil mastermind whose sinister and predatory behavior was depicted in novels and media for much of the last century. The larger cultural consequences are significant. A            recent NPR “Invisibilia” podcast featuring Yowei Shaw explored the real-life rejection Asian-American men experience today. Shaw cites a 2013 study that reported on online heterosexual dating patterns in the 20 largest American cities: When Asians initiated contact, white men replied to Asian women while white women rarely replied to Asian men. (And when white men reached out to Asian women, Asian women tended to respond to white men over men of their own race.) Shaw interviewed a young Asian-American man who spoke, anonymously, of his sexual alienation as a teenager. He described his experience talking to girls as so: “‘Disdain’ is the word that I’ve come to use to describe this over time. They just viewed me with disdain. They were like, ‘Why are you even talking to me? Like, is this a joke?’”
[Coming soon: the T List newsletter, a weekly roundup of what T Magazine editors are noticing and coveting. Sign up here.]
There’s a joke that the comedian Joel Kim Booster, 31, tells that goes like this: “I’m terrible at math. I don’t know karate. My dick is huge.” Booster is Korean-American and gay. He is handsome, with a square jaw and broad shoulders, and he emanates a sharp self-awareness. His comedic style is vulgar but vulnerable, less shockingly transgressive than plainly open about who he is. Adopted by a white evangelical Christian family in Plainfield, Ill., and home-schooled until he was 16, Booster was one of the thousands of South Korean babies flown to American families for adoption in the 1980s — “the GrubHub of babies,”            as he put it on an episode of “Conan” in 2016. He says his parents discovered he was gay by reading his journal when he was a teenager: “At that point in my life, it wasn’t an introspective ‘thoughts and dreams’ kind of journal,” he says, “but more of a BuzzFeed list of guys’ dicks I was sucking. It was clickbait for my parents.” He likes to joke he knew he was gay before he figured out he was Asian.
Booster is charismatic, full of swagger and sensitivity, and his presence reverberates. When I began watching his sets, I couldn’t quite define what I was enjoying until I realized how rare it was to watch an Asian-American man be himself — appealingly ribald, unapologetically complicated — in front of an audience. But as a half Chinese-American woman, I also found myself reluctant to articulate what Booster represented to me: Here, in America, where Asian-American men are rarely represented in popular culture — and almost never as people who are shown as having desire, whose strength is innate, whose silence is withholding — here was someone right in front of me who contradicted this perceived lack of masculinity. There may now be Henry Golding, who played the self-possessed heir to a Singapore fortune in 2018’s “Crazy Rich Asians,” or the hunky “Asian Bae” (also known as Andrew) in            Issa Rae’s HBO show “           Insecure,” but for the most part, Asian-American men are left out, avoided or emasculated onscreen. Though Asian-American women face equally vexing problems when it comes to representation, our own sexuality — however problematically portrayed, however exoticized — is, for better or worse, accepted. When Asian-American men’s sexuality is granted, it is the exception to the rule.
But if Asian-American men have typically been reduced to nothing more than a joke, then today they are beginning to be seen as possessing their own sexuality — gay or straight, it doesn’t really matter, actually — that points to more inclusive ideas of masculinity. This inclusiveness, however, has its own limitations: Asian-American men in entertainment remain largely confined to the realm of comedy, which has always been Hollywood’s unofficial back door for marginalized performers. Comedy remains a way for the othered — whether that be women, queer people, trans people, plus-size people, people of color or anyone else outside orthodox ideas of beauty and success — to force their face into the consciousness of a world all too happy to ignore them. Humor remains one of the few ways one can reclaim one’s humanity as a performer, to take the worst that can be said and turn it on its head. It offers an opportunity to tell the kinds of stories that are difficult to say too earnestly — to say out loud what doesn’t always make sense, because degradation rarely does. To make the world look at you.
Humor remains one of the few ways one can reclaim one’s humanity as a performer.
Yet there persists a long historical narrative that explains how the idea of the Asian-American man as both sexually limp and rapacious came to be. This stereotype is almost exclusively centered around East and Southeast Asian men, in part because the immigration laws against Chinese people (and later Japanese people, and other Asians) from the last two centuries continue to contribute to today’s notions of Asian male masculinity. Beginning in 1875, legislation was passed barring unmarried Chinese women from entering the United States, leaving half a generation of Chinese immigrant men unable to create families (further restrictions were later applied to all Chinese immigrants, continuing into the 20th century, but by 1910, Chinese women made up only 9.7 percent of Chinese immigrants entering the country). Additionally, many Chinese male immigrants in the 19th and early 20th century took up women’s work, such as laundry and domestic services, as a means to be economically and linguistically self-sufficient. From the perspective of the entertainment industry, this stereotype about Asian men supersedes all others, bolstered by the “model minority” trope as a new wave of Asian immigrants entered the country after racial quotas were abolished in 1965.
The beauty of representation, however, is that one person can never speak for all. And so, the fight for representation is a consistent and stubborn push against being defined by how Hollywood perceives us — we are not white, nor are we black; we are never seen as we are, we are always invisible. And this push, this resistance, is what makes the jokes of someone like Booster, delivered from his perspective as a transnational adoptee and gay man, feel at once both obvious and very surprising.
UNTIL VERY RECENTLY, the character of Long Duk Dong in John Hughes’s 1984 movie “Sixteen Candles” was a kind of stock figure who stood in for our culture’s perception of the Asian man in America. He was an exchange student of ambiguous origin living with the white Baker family. We first meet Dong, who is played by the Japanese-American actor            Gedde Watanabe, after he hangs his head over a bunk bed in front of Samantha, played by Molly Ringwald. “What’s happen’n, hot stuff?” he asks her, in a thick, placeless accent. A gong sounds. Ringwald’s face registers disgust. Later, in another scene, Dong is facedown in the grass, still intoxicated from a party the night before. He looks up at his American host family: “Ohh, no more yanky my wanky! The Donger need food!”
Laughter ends, but it can be hard to shake whatever false truths are bound to a joke. When the comedian and actor Ken Jeong jumped out of a car naked in the 2009 comedy film “           The Hangover,” his flaccid penis got a laugh. Jeong later defended the scene, saying in an interview that it was his suggestion, his decision and his penis. But weren’t they — weren’t we — laughing at his expense? Did it not reinforce what we as a culture are taught to think of Asian men generally?
The heart of comedy is the element of surprise, the way a joke can weave around a room, tell the sympathetic story of someone’s life and then suddenly turn and slap you in the face. The deftness of a comedian lies in his ability to judge the severity of the joke’s transgression — of knowing when and where to cross the line. A good joke can end a quarrel; a bad joke can get someone kicked out of the party. A great joke, however, is inseparable from its ability to subvert, to say the unspoken or unspeakable. When we laugh at the joke, we laugh despite the discomfort. We laugh knowing we’ve just witnessed a taboo dash across the room like a streaker on a soccer field. Comedy gives us permission to let an unspoken thought free.
When I speak to Booster about his humor, I perceive that he feels a sense of responsibility — if not to carry the oppressive, overwhelming burden of representation, then to question the foundation upon which certain stereotypes are built, stereotypes that he has employed in his own routines. He tells me that as his career grew, he started performing more and more to predominantly Asian audiences. His jokes began to change. He says, “I used to have jokes that talked about how it’s funny that I’m adopted and yet I’m still a bad driver. It must be genetic.” When I looked up his older clips, I could see that Booster was already pulling apart the joke — separating his personal incompetence behind the wheel of a car from the stereotype of bad Asian drivers. Here he is in 2017: “But actually, you guys, that might have more to do with being gay and sleeping with men than it has to do with being Asian. Something about being lied to my entire life about what six inches look like — now my depth perception is [expletive].” The audience laughs uproariously.
A great joke is inseparable from its ability to subvert, to say the unspoken or unspeakable.
“I am a bad driver,” Booster tells me. “That’s not me making that up.” But it didn’t sit well with him to perpetuate a tired stereotype. “Every time I get honked at by a person, it comes from a real place of turmoil. My brain is like, ‘I’m confirming a stereotype right now for a person.’ And that is a weight white people don’t have to carry around.”
The actor and comedian Jimmy O. Yang, who plays the mercenary Chinese app developer Jian-Yang in the HBO series “           Silicon Valley,” says that comedy was where he found a sense of belonging as an immigrant from Hong Kong. Humor allowed him to access a deeper sense of self-awareness, and telling jokes allowed him to find people who were trying to translate their experiences as he did: “In stand-up, honing material gets more specific and more truthful. In the very beginning, it’s just about me jerking off, right? Then it became about me being Asian — very broad, dumb jokes. Stereotypes that were not specific to me.” But Yang soon began to subvert the jokes, to question assumptions about his identity and his experiences. “When I was growing up,” he tells me, “I was super stereotypical. I played the violin. I was pretty damn good at math. I played Ping-Pong competitively, all that stuff. But those things weren’t stereotypes when I was growing up, because I grew up in Hong Kong. Everybody was Asian. That’s just what everybody did.” I bring up a bit I had seen from one of Yang’s sets from 2014 that evoked clichés of Asian masculinity. In it, he jokes about how, when he goes to the beach, he gets mistaken for a girl from behind. Then he embellishes it: “And from the front, I look like a hot Asian chick!” Yang acknowledges that it was self-deprecating. He adds: “But at the same time, how does me looking like an Asian chick matter? Am I really making a comment on Asian masculinity, or am I making a comment on how society views Asian people?”
This is a negotiation comedians of color from all kinds of backgrounds have to make, and it isn’t one that’s become easier. In 2005, Dave Chappelle famously quit his eponymous Comedy Central show and walked away from a reported $50-million contract. He described the exact moment he knew a line had been crossed: During a taping of a scene in which he played a magical pixie, in blackface, who embodied all of the worst stereotypes about black people, Chappelle heard an audience member, a white man, laugh too loud and for too long. “When he laughed, it made me uncomfortable,” Chappelle            told Time later that year. “As a matter of fact, that was the last thing I shot before I told myself I gotta take [expletive] time out after this. Because my head almost exploded.”
IT IS ONLY in the past three years or so that Hollywood has started to view people of Asian descent differently. We have become, in just the last year alone, a commodity. There’s the “Saturday Night Live” writer Bowen Yang, who lip-syncs to Cardi B on his Twitter account,            @bowenyang, and whose podcast, “           Las Culturistas,” with fellow comedian            Matt Rogers, has a cult following. There’s Jason Kim and            Greta Lee, who are developing an HBO series called “KTown” about a kingpin family in Los Angeles’s Koreatown, and            Randall Park and            Ali Wong’s recent Netflix romantic comedy “           Always Be My Maybe,” and            Ronny Chieng’s 2017 Australian television series “International Student” and            Sheng Wang’s soulful stand-up tour. Collectively, they offer some real hope of overcoming the idea that Asian-Americans’ place in film and television is merely a comedic one.            Alan Yang, who got his start as a writer and producer on “Parks and Recreation” and as a co-creator of “           Master of None,” is preparing his feature-length film debut called “Tigertail,” a multigenerational family drama starring            John Cho.
And their approach to making comedy has changed as well. The jokes address the same stereotypes — bad driving, small stature — but now they’re at the expense of the stereotype, rather than at the comic delivering them. Take Ali Wong describing her marriage in her 2016 Netflix comedy special “Baby Cobra”: “I think my husband and I have a huge unspoken understanding between each other, because he’s half Filipino and half Japanese and I’m half Chinese and half Vietnamese. So, we’re both half fancy Asian ... and half jungle Asian. ... The fancy Asians are the Chinese, the Japanese. They get to do fancy things like host Olympics. Jungle Asians host diseases.” Or take Maya Erskine in her Hulu show “Pen15” with Anna Konkle; Erskine is Japanese-American and portrays a moment when her character is cast as Scary Spice in a re-creation of a Spice Girls video because, she is, as one of the popular girls says, “like, tan.” She imitates submissive stereotypes for a laugh until her older brother — a crush-worthy authority figure as well as, at times, the show’s conscience — points out she’s engaging in racist behavior. It’s a funny performance, and yet both Erskine’s character and the audience are allowed to build an awareness of what is unacceptable.
The stories these comedians tell and the way they tell them will have wider repercussions for the representation of Asian-Americans on film and television, though it’s crucial to understand how persistent these stereotypes really are. In 1994, Margaret Cho was the first Asian-American to have her own prime-time network sitcom: “All-American Girl.” It lasted only one season, and even Cho admits it was something of an artistic failure. “I didn’t realize I was actually the star of the show,” Cho says, “and I was so scared.” After watching Cho’s more recent stand-up, which is explicitly sexual and frank about her body (she has a bit I like where she pulls down her pants and jiggles her tattoo-covered butt at the audience), I have wondered if Cho was too ahead of her time. The film “           The Joy Luck Club” had come out the year before “All-American Girl,” and it had been filled with scenes of families eating traditional Chinese food, of a white man clobbering a prawn with a pair of chopsticks, of old Chinese ladies playing mah-jongg. In her show, Cho, who was 25 at the time, played a version of herself as the rebellious daughter of a traditional Korean family based in San Francisco. She wore heavy black eyeliner and she dated white boys; everything about it, despite the compromises Cho feels she made, defied what was expected of an Asian-American family on the screen. There wasn’t another all-Asian network show until “Fresh Off the Boat” in 2015, more than 20 years later, and that show, about to air its sixth season, remains the only network show to carry that distinction.
That night in the comedy club with my family, I watched my mother and her siblings. They weren’t laughing, but nor, as far as I could tell, were they that upset. They are by nature nice people — but being an immigrant, I suspect, makes you accommodate what you might not have otherwise. To confront a problem proves you don’t understand, that you missed the point, that you didn’t get a joke when everyone else did. My aunt and her brother ordered another round of club sodas, obeying the two-drink minimum. We politely clapped and then we all went home. Later, I understood that the indignity I felt was not a mark on me: Bad humor is merely tedious, an experience to endure and then forget. But good comedy — true comedy — is, at its core, deeply relatable. It makes us wait for that moment where what we knew to be true feels like an epiphany, where we recognize something in ourselves that had never been articulated before. We laugh at ourselves because we hope that the other person will understand, but also because there’s no way to speak to the anger and sadness and rage that is there and will always be there. We laugh in order to let it go.
PHOTO: Several artists have examined the complexities of Asian-American masculinity. The cartoonist Adrian Tomine’s 2007 graphic novel, “Shortcomings” (an excerpt of which is pictured above), explores his own desire surrounding race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY From "Shortcomings," © Adrian Tomine, image courtesy of Drawn &amp; Quarterly FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity; Social Studies
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 05:52 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: T-MAGAZINE
Length: 3265 words
Byline: Thessaly La Force
Highlight: A new generation that includes Joel Kim Booster and Bowen Yang is redefining old notions — while reminding us how much further the culture has to go.
Body


A new generation that includes Joel Kim Booster and Bowen Yang is redefining old notions — while reminding us how much further the culture has to go.
NOT THAT LONG AGO, my family, which includes my mother and her two siblings — all three of whom are Chinese — went to a comedy show at a well-known nightclub in Manhattan. My aunt and uncle, who live in Long Island, had gone there on an early date decades ago. My mom and her sister were visiting from out of town. The sets weren’t much longer than 10 to 15 minutes, and there must have been four or maybe five comedians in total. None of them were of Asian descent, and yet almost immediately, the Asian jokes started: Asians are bad drivers. Asian men are undesirable. Asian men have small penises. Asian women are good in bed because they’re small and docile. My discomfort was palpable. I was disappointed in what I was witnessing, in the laughter I was hearing around us, but I also wasn’t surprised.
There is an accepted kind of humor when it comes to talking about Asian-Americans — it’s a humor comfortable with its own ignorance, like the bully in the schoolyard who pounces on perceived weaknesses and kicks up dirt for a laugh. These types of jokes often concern Asian men’s masculinity, or lack thereof — or the Asian man’s helplessness in life, his neediness, his foolishness, his greed, his feminine demeanor and physicality. He is depicted as lecherous but harmless, silly and creepy. These jokes echo two of the most pernicious stereotypes of Asian men ever to appear onscreen in Western culture, even if today they are largely undiscussed: the detective Charlie Chan, who appeared in a series of films from the 1920s to ’80s, who was neutered and servile; and Fu Manchu, an archetypal evil mastermind whose sinister and predatory behavior was depicted in novels and media for much of the last century. The larger cultural consequences are significant. A            recent NPR “Invisibilia” podcast featuring Yowei Shaw explored the real-life rejection Asian-American men experience today. Shaw cites a 2013 study that reported on online heterosexual dating patterns in the 20 largest American cities: When Asians initiated contact, white men replied to Asian women while white women rarely replied to Asian men. (And when white men reached out to Asian women, Asian women tended to respond to white men over men of their own race.) Shaw interviewed a young Asian-American man who spoke, anonymously, of his sexual alienation as a teenager. He described his experience talking to girls as so: “‘Disdain’ is the word that I’ve come to use to describe this over time. They just viewed me with disdain. They were like, ‘Why are you even talking to me? Like, is this a joke?’”
[Coming soon: the T List newsletter, a weekly roundup of what T Magazine editors are noticing and coveting. Sign up here.]
There’s a joke that the comedian Joel Kim Booster, 31, tells that goes like this: “I’m terrible at math. I don’t know karate. My dick is huge.” Booster is Korean-American and gay. He is handsome, with a square jaw and broad shoulders, and he emanates a sharp self-awareness. His comedic style is vulgar but vulnerable, less shockingly transgressive than plainly open about who he is. Adopted by a white evangelical Christian family in Plainfield, Ill., and home-schooled until he was 16, Booster was one of the thousands of South Korean babies flown to American families for adoption in the 1980s — “the GrubHub of babies,”            as he put it on an episode of “Conan” in 2016. He says his parents discovered he was gay by reading his journal when he was a teenager: “At that point in my life, it wasn’t an introspective ‘thoughts and dreams’ kind of journal,” he says, “but more of a BuzzFeed list of guys’ dicks I was sucking. It was clickbait for my parents.” He likes to joke he knew he was gay before he figured out he was Asian.
Booster is charismatic, full of swagger and sensitivity, and his presence reverberates. When I began watching his sets, I couldn’t quite define what I was enjoying until I realized how rare it was to watch an Asian-American man be himself — appealingly ribald, unapologetically complicated — in front of an audience. But as a half Chinese-American woman, I also found myself reluctant to articulate what Booster represented to me: Here, in America, where Asian-American men are rarely represented in popular culture — and almost never as people who are shown as having desire, whose strength is innate, whose silence is withholding — here was someone right in front of me who contradicted this perceived lack of masculinity. There may now be Henry Golding, who played the self-possessed heir to a Singapore fortune in 2018’s “Crazy Rich Asians,” or the hunky “Asian Bae” (also known as Andrew) in            Issa Rae’s HBO show “           Insecure,” but for the most part, Asian-American men are left out, avoided or emasculated onscreen. Though Asian-American women face equally vexing problems when it comes to representation, our own sexuality — however problematically portrayed, however exoticized — is, for better or worse, accepted. When Asian-American men’s sexuality is granted, it is the exception to the rule.
But if Asian-American men have typically been reduced to nothing more than a joke, then today they are beginning to be seen as possessing their own sexuality — gay or straight, it doesn’t really matter, actually — that points to more inclusive ideas of masculinity. This inclusiveness, however, has its own limitations: Asian-American men in entertainment remain largely confined to the realm of comedy, which has always been Hollywood’s unofficial back door for marginalized performers. Comedy remains a way for the othered — whether that be women, queer people, trans people, plus-size people, people of color or anyone else outside orthodox ideas of beauty and success — to force their face into the consciousness of a world all too happy to ignore them. Humor remains one of the few ways one can reclaim one’s humanity as a performer, to take the worst that can be said and turn it on its head. It offers an opportunity to tell the kinds of stories that are difficult to say too earnestly — to say out loud what doesn’t always make sense, because degradation rarely does. To make the world look at you.
Humor remains one of the few ways one can reclaim one’s humanity as a performer.
Yet there persists a long historical narrative that explains how the idea of the Asian-American man as both sexually limp and rapacious came to be. This stereotype is almost exclusively centered around East and Southeast Asian men, in part because the immigration laws against Chinese people (and later Japanese people, and other Asians) from the last two centuries continue to contribute to today’s notions of Asian male masculinity. Beginning in 1875, legislation was passed barring unmarried Chinese women from entering the United States, leaving half a generation of Chinese immigrant men unable to create families (further restrictions were later applied to all Chinese immigrants, continuing into the 20th century, but by 1910, Chinese women made up only 9.7 percent of Chinese immigrants entering the country). Additionally, many Chinese male immigrants in the 19th and early 20th century took up women’s work, such as laundry and domestic services, as a means to be economically and linguistically self-sufficient. From the perspective of the entertainment industry, this stereotype about Asian men supersedes all others, bolstered by the “model minority” trope as a new wave of Asian immigrants entered the country after racial quotas were abolished in 1965.
The beauty of representation, however, is that one person can never speak for all. And so, the fight for representation is a consistent and stubborn push against being defined by how Hollywood perceives us — we are not white, nor are we black; we are never seen as we are, we are always invisible. And this push, this resistance, is what makes the jokes of someone like Booster, delivered from his perspective as a transnational adoptee and gay man, feel at once both obvious and very surprising.
UNTIL VERY RECENTLY, the character of Long Duk Dong in John Hughes’s 1984 movie “Sixteen Candles” was a kind of stock figure who stood in for our culture’s perception of the Asian man in America. He was an exchange student of ambiguous origin living with the white Baker family. We first meet Dong, who is played by the Japanese-American actor            Gedde Watanabe, after he hangs his head over a bunk bed in front of Samantha, played by Molly Ringwald. “What’s happen’n, hot stuff?” he asks her, in a thick, placeless accent. A gong sounds. Ringwald’s face registers disgust. Later, in another scene, Dong is facedown in the grass, still intoxicated from a party the night before. He looks up at his American host family: “Ohh, no more yanky my wanky! The Donger need food!”
Laughter ends, but it can be hard to shake whatever false truths are bound to a joke. When the comedian and actor Ken Jeong jumped out of a car naked in the 2009 comedy film “           The Hangover,” his flaccid penis got a laugh. Jeong later defended the scene, saying in an interview that it was his suggestion, his decision and his penis. But weren’t they — weren’t we — laughing at his expense? Did it not reinforce what we as a culture are taught to think of Asian men generally?
The heart of comedy is the element of surprise, the way a joke can weave around a room, tell the sympathetic story of someone’s life and then suddenly turn and slap you in the face. The deftness of a comedian lies in his ability to judge the severity of the joke’s transgression — of knowing when and where to cross the line. A good joke can end a quarrel; a bad joke can get someone kicked out of the party. A great joke, however, is inseparable from its ability to subvert, to say the unspoken or unspeakable. When we laugh at the joke, we laugh despite the discomfort. We laugh knowing we’ve just witnessed a taboo dash across the room like a streaker on a soccer field. Comedy gives us permission to let an unspoken thought free.
When I speak to Booster about his humor, I perceive that he feels a sense of responsibility — if not to carry the oppressive, overwhelming burden of representation, then to question the foundation upon which certain stereotypes are built, stereotypes that he has employed in his own routines. He tells me that as his career grew, he started performing more and more to predominantly Asian audiences. His jokes began to change. He says, “I used to have jokes that talked about how it’s funny that I’m adopted and yet I’m still a bad driver. It must be genetic.” When I looked up his older clips, I could see that Booster was already pulling apart the joke — separating his personal incompetence behind the wheel of a car from the stereotype of bad Asian drivers. Here he is in 2017: “But actually, you guys, that might have more to do with being gay and sleeping with men than it has to do with being Asian. Something about being lied to my entire life about what six inches look like — now my depth perception is [expletive].” The audience laughs uproariously.
A great joke is inseparable from its ability to subvert, to say the unspoken or unspeakable.
“I am a bad driver,” Booster tells me. “That’s not me making that up.” But it didn’t sit well with him to perpetuate a tired stereotype. “Every time I get honked at by a person, it comes from a real place of turmoil. My brain is like, ‘I’m confirming a stereotype right now for a person.’ And that is a weight white people don’t have to carry around.”
The actor and comedian Jimmy O. Yang, who plays the mercenary Chinese app developer Jian-Yang in the HBO series “           Silicon Valley,” says that comedy was where he found a sense of belonging as an immigrant from Hong Kong. Humor allowed him to access a deeper sense of self-awareness, and telling jokes allowed him to find people who were trying to translate their experiences as he did: “In stand-up, honing material gets more specific and more truthful. In the very beginning, it’s just about me jerking off, right? Then it became about me being Asian — very broad, dumb jokes. Stereotypes that were not specific to me.” But Yang soon began to subvert the jokes, to question assumptions about his identity and his experiences. “When I was growing up,” he tells me, “I was super stereotypical. I played the violin. I was pretty damn good at math. I played Ping-Pong competitively, all that stuff. But those things weren’t stereotypes when I was growing up, because I grew up in Hong Kong. Everybody was Asian. That’s just what everybody did.” I bring up a bit I had seen from one of Yang’s sets from 2014 that evoked clichés of Asian masculinity. In it, he jokes about how, when he goes to the beach, he gets mistaken for a girl from behind. Then he embellishes it: “And from the front, I look like a hot Asian chick!” Yang acknowledges that it was self-deprecating. He adds: “But at the same time, how does me looking like an Asian chick matter? Am I really making a comment on Asian masculinity, or am I making a comment on how society views Asian people?”
This is a negotiation comedians of color from all kinds of backgrounds have to make, and it isn’t one that’s become easier. In 2005, Dave Chappelle famously quit his eponymous Comedy Central show and walked away from a reported $50-million contract. He described the exact moment he knew a line had been crossed: During a taping of a scene in which he played a magical pixie, in blackface, who embodied all of the worst stereotypes about black people, Chappelle heard an audience member, a white man, laugh too loud and for too long. “When he laughed, it made me uncomfortable,” Chappelle            told Time later that year. “As a matter of fact, that was the last thing I shot before I told myself I gotta take [expletive] time out after this. Because my head almost exploded.”
IT IS ONLY in the past three years or so that Hollywood has started to view people of Asian descent differently. We have become, in just the last year alone, a commodity. There’s the “Saturday Night Live” writer Bowen Yang, who lip-syncs to Cardi B on his Twitter account,            @bowenyang, and whose podcast, “           Las Culturistas,” with fellow comedian            Matt Rogers, has a cult following. There’s Jason Kim and            Greta Lee, who are developing an HBO series called “KTown” about a kingpin family in Los Angeles’s Koreatown, and            Randall Park and            Ali Wong’s recent Netflix romantic comedy “           Always Be My Maybe,” and            Ronny Chieng’s 2017 Australian television series “International Student” and            Sheng Wang’s soulful stand-up tour. Collectively, they offer some real hope of overcoming the idea that Asian-Americans’ place in film and television is merely a comedic one.            Alan Yang, who got his start as a writer and producer on “Parks and Recreation” and as a co-creator of “           Master of None,” is preparing his feature-length film debut called “Tigertail,” a multigenerational family drama starring            John Cho.
And their approach to making comedy has changed as well. The jokes address the same stereotypes — bad driving, small stature — but now they’re at the expense of the stereotype, rather than at the comic delivering them. Take Ali Wong describing her marriage in her 2016 Netflix comedy special “Baby Cobra”: “I think my husband and I have a huge unspoken understanding between each other, because he’s half Filipino and half Japanese and I’m half Chinese and half Vietnamese. So, we’re both half fancy Asian ... and half jungle Asian. ... The fancy Asians are the Chinese, the Japanese. They get to do fancy things like host Olympics. Jungle Asians host diseases.” Or take Maya Erskine in her Hulu show “Pen15” with Anna Konkle; Erskine is Japanese-American and portrays a moment when her character is cast as Scary Spice in a re-creation of a Spice Girls video because, she is, as one of the popular girls says, “like, tan.” She imitates submissive stereotypes for a laugh until her older brother — a crush-worthy authority figure as well as, at times, the show’s conscience — points out she’s engaging in racist behavior. It’s a funny performance, and yet both Erskine’s character and the audience are allowed to build an awareness of what is unacceptable.
The stories these comedians tell and the way they tell them will have wider repercussions for the representation of Asian-Americans on film and television, though it’s crucial to understand how persistent these stereotypes really are. In 1994, Margaret Cho was the first Asian-American to have her own prime-time network sitcom: “All-American Girl.” It lasted only one season, and even Cho admits it was something of an artistic failure. “I didn’t realize I was actually the star of the show,” Cho says, “and I was so scared.” After watching Cho’s more recent stand-up, which is explicitly sexual and frank about her body (she has a bit I like where she pulls down her pants and jiggles her tattoo-covered butt at the audience), I have wondered if Cho was too ahead of her time. The film “           The Joy Luck Club” had come out the year before “All-American Girl,” and it had been filled with scenes of families eating traditional Chinese food, of a white man clobbering a prawn with a pair of chopsticks, of old Chinese ladies playing mah-jongg. In her show, Cho, who was 25 at the time, played a version of herself as the rebellious daughter of a traditional Korean family based in San Francisco. She wore heavy black eyeliner and she dated white boys; everything about it, despite the compromises Cho feels she made, defied what was expected of an Asian-American family on the screen. There wasn’t another all-Asian network show until “Fresh Off the Boat” in 2015, more than 20 years later, and that show, about to air its sixth season, remains the only network show to carry that distinction.
That night in the comedy club with my family, I watched my mother and her siblings. They weren’t laughing, but nor, as far as I could tell, were they that upset. They are by nature nice people — but being an immigrant, I suspect, makes you accommodate what you might not have otherwise. To confront a problem proves you don’t understand, that you missed the point, that you didn’t get a joke when everyone else did. My aunt and her brother ordered another round of club sodas, obeying the two-drink minimum. We politely clapped and then we all went home. Later, I understood that the indignity I felt was not a mark on me: Bad humor is merely tedious, an experience to endure and then forget. But good comedy — true comedy — is, at its core, deeply relatable. It makes us wait for that moment where what we knew to be true feels like an epiphany, where we recognize something in ourselves that had never been articulated before. We laugh at ourselves because we hope that the other person will understand, but also because there’s no way to speak to the anger and sadness and rage that is there and will always be there. We laugh in order to let it go.
PHOTO: Several artists have examined the complexities of Asian-American masculinity. The cartoonist Adrian Tomine’s 2007 graphic novel, “Shortcomings” (an excerpt of which is pictured above), explores his own desire surrounding race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY From "Shortcomings," © Adrian Tomine, image courtesy of Drawn &amp; Quarterly FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity; Social Studies
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 06:13 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: T-MAGAZINE
Length: 3265 words
Byline: Thessaly La Force
Highlight: A new generation that includes Joel Kim Booster and Bowen Yang is redefining old notions — while reminding us how much further the culture has to go.
Body


A new generation that includes Joel Kim Booster and Bowen Yang is redefining old notions — while reminding us how much further the culture has to go.
NOT THAT LONG AGO, my family, which includes my mother and her two siblings — all three of whom are Chinese — went to a comedy show at a well-known nightclub in Manhattan. My aunt and uncle, who live in Long Island, had gone there on an early date decades ago. My mom and her sister were visiting from out of town. The sets weren’t much longer than 10 to 15 minutes, and there must have been four or maybe five comedians in total. None of them were of Asian descent, and yet almost immediately, the Asian jokes started: Asians are bad drivers. Asian men are undesirable. Asian men have small penises. Asian women are good in bed because they’re small and docile. My discomfort was palpable. I was disappointed in what I was witnessing, in the laughter I was hearing around us, but I also wasn’t surprised.
There is an accepted kind of humor when it comes to talking about Asian-Americans — it’s a humor comfortable with its own ignorance, like the bully in the schoolyard who pounces on perceived weaknesses and kicks up dirt for a laugh. These types of jokes often concern Asian men’s masculinity, or lack thereof — or the Asian man’s helplessness in life, his neediness, his foolishness, his greed, his feminine demeanor and physicality. He is depicted as lecherous but harmless, silly and creepy. These jokes echo two of the most pernicious stereotypes of Asian men ever to appear onscreen in Western culture, even if today they are largely undiscussed: the detective Charlie Chan, who appeared in a series of films from the 1920s to ’80s, who was neutered and servile; and Fu Manchu, an archetypal evil mastermind whose sinister and predatory behavior was depicted in novels and media for much of the last century. The larger cultural consequences are significant. A            recent NPR “Invisibilia” podcast featuring Yowei Shaw explored the real-life rejection Asian-American men experience today. Shaw cites a 2013 study that reported on online heterosexual dating patterns in the 20 largest American cities: When Asians initiated contact, white men replied to Asian women while white women rarely replied to Asian men. (And when white men reached out to Asian women, Asian women tended to respond to white men over men of their own race.) Shaw interviewed a young Asian-American man who spoke, anonymously, of his sexual alienation as a teenager. He described his experience talking to girls as so: “‘Disdain’ is the word that I’ve come to use to describe this over time. They just viewed me with disdain. They were like, ‘Why are you even talking to me? Like, is this a joke?’”
[Coming soon: the T List newsletter, a weekly roundup of what T Magazine editors are noticing and coveting. Sign up here.]
There’s a joke that the comedian Joel Kim Booster, 31, tells that goes like this: “I’m terrible at math. I don’t know karate. My dick is huge.” Booster is Korean-American and gay. He is handsome, with a square jaw and broad shoulders, and he emanates a sharp self-awareness. His comedic style is vulgar but vulnerable, less shockingly transgressive than plainly open about who he is. Adopted by a white evangelical Christian family in Plainfield, Ill., and home-schooled until he was 16, Booster was one of the thousands of South Korean babies flown to American families for adoption in the 1980s — “the GrubHub of babies,”            as he put it on an episode of “Conan” in 2016. He says his parents discovered he was gay by reading his journal when he was a teenager: “At that point in my life, it wasn’t an introspective ‘thoughts and dreams’ kind of journal,” he says, “but more of a BuzzFeed list of guys’ dicks I was sucking. It was clickbait for my parents.” He likes to joke he knew he was gay before he figured out he was Asian.
Booster is charismatic, full of swagger and sensitivity, and his presence reverberates. When I began watching his sets, I couldn’t quite define what I was enjoying until I realized how rare it was to watch an Asian-American man be himself — appealingly ribald, unapologetically complicated — in front of an audience. But as a half Chinese-American woman, I also found myself reluctant to articulate what Booster represented to me: Here, in America, where Asian-American men are rarely represented in popular culture — and almost never as people who are shown as having desire, whose strength is innate, whose silence is withholding — here was someone right in front of me who contradicted this perceived lack of masculinity. There may now be Henry Golding, who played the self-possessed heir to a Singapore fortune in 2018’s “Crazy Rich Asians,” or the hunky “Asian Bae” (also known as Andrew) in            Issa Rae’s HBO show “           Insecure,” but for the most part, Asian-American men are left out, avoided or emasculated onscreen. Though Asian-American women face equally vexing problems when it comes to representation, our own sexuality — however problematically portrayed, however exoticized — is, for better or worse, accepted. When Asian-American men’s sexuality is granted, it is the exception to the rule.
But if Asian-American men have typically been reduced to nothing more than a joke, then today they are beginning to be seen as possessing their own sexuality — gay or straight, it doesn’t really matter, actually — that points to more inclusive ideas of masculinity. This inclusiveness, however, has its own limitations: Asian-American men in entertainment remain largely confined to the realm of comedy, which has always been Hollywood’s unofficial back door for marginalized performers. Comedy remains a way for the othered — whether that be women, queer people, trans people, plus-size people, people of color or anyone else outside orthodox ideas of beauty and success — to force their face into the consciousness of a world all too happy to ignore them. Humor remains one of the few ways one can reclaim one’s humanity as a performer, to take the worst that can be said and turn it on its head. It offers an opportunity to tell the kinds of stories that are difficult to say too earnestly — to say out loud what doesn’t always make sense, because degradation rarely does. To make the world look at you.
Humor remains one of the few ways one can reclaim one’s humanity as a performer.
Yet there persists a long historical narrative that explains how the idea of the Asian-American man as both sexually limp and rapacious came to be. This stereotype is almost exclusively centered around East and Southeast Asian men, in part because the immigration laws against Chinese people (and later Japanese people, and other Asians) from the last two centuries continue to contribute to today’s notions of Asian male masculinity. Beginning in 1875, legislation was passed barring unmarried Chinese women from entering the United States, leaving half a generation of Chinese immigrant men unable to create families (further restrictions were later applied to all Chinese immigrants, continuing into the 20th century, but by 1910, Chinese women made up only 9.7 percent of Chinese immigrants entering the country). Additionally, many Chinese male immigrants in the 19th and early 20th century took up women’s work, such as laundry and domestic services, as a means to be economically and linguistically self-sufficient. From the perspective of the entertainment industry, this stereotype about Asian men supersedes all others, bolstered by the “model minority” trope as a new wave of Asian immigrants entered the country after racial quotas were abolished in 1965.
The beauty of representation, however, is that one person can never speak for all. And so, the fight for representation is a consistent and stubborn push against being defined by how Hollywood perceives us — we are not white, nor are we black; we are never seen as we are, we are always invisible. And this push, this resistance, is what makes the jokes of someone like Booster, delivered from his perspective as a transnational adoptee and gay man, feel at once both obvious and very surprising.
UNTIL VERY RECENTLY, the character of Long Duk Dong in John Hughes’s 1984 movie “Sixteen Candles” was a kind of stock figure who stood in for our culture’s perception of the Asian man in America. He was an exchange student of ambiguous origin living with the white Baker family. We first meet Dong, who is played by the Japanese-American actor            Gedde Watanabe, after he hangs his head over a bunk bed in front of Samantha, played by Molly Ringwald. “What’s happen’n, hot stuff?” he asks her, in a thick, placeless accent. A gong sounds. Ringwald’s face registers disgust. Later, in another scene, Dong is facedown in the grass, still intoxicated from a party the night before. He looks up at his American host family: “Ohh, no more yanky my wanky! The Donger need food!”
Laughter ends, but it can be hard to shake whatever false truths are bound to a joke. When the comedian and actor Ken Jeong jumped out of a car naked in the 2009 comedy film “           The Hangover,” his flaccid penis got a laugh. Jeong later defended the scene, saying in an interview that it was his suggestion, his decision and his penis. But weren’t they — weren’t we — laughing at his expense? Did it not reinforce what we as a culture are taught to think of Asian men generally?
The heart of comedy is the element of surprise, the way a joke can weave around a room, tell the sympathetic story of someone’s life and then suddenly turn and slap you in the face. The deftness of a comedian lies in his ability to judge the severity of the joke’s transgression — of knowing when and where to cross the line. A good joke can end a quarrel; a bad joke can get someone kicked out of the party. A great joke, however, is inseparable from its ability to subvert, to say the unspoken or unspeakable. When we laugh at the joke, we laugh despite the discomfort. We laugh knowing we’ve just witnessed a taboo dash across the room like a streaker on a soccer field. Comedy gives us permission to let an unspoken thought free.
When I speak to Booster about his humor, I perceive that he feels a sense of responsibility — if not to carry the oppressive, overwhelming burden of representation, then to question the foundation upon which certain stereotypes are built, stereotypes that he has employed in his own routines. He tells me that as his career grew, he started performing more and more to predominantly Asian audiences. His jokes began to change. He says, “I used to have jokes that talked about how it’s funny that I’m adopted and yet I’m still a bad driver. It must be genetic.” When I looked up his older clips, I could see that Booster was already pulling apart the joke — separating his personal incompetence behind the wheel of a car from the stereotype of bad Asian drivers. Here he is in 2017: “But actually, you guys, that might have more to do with being gay and sleeping with men than it has to do with being Asian. Something about being lied to my entire life about what six inches look like — now my depth perception is [expletive].” The audience laughs uproariously.
A great joke is inseparable from its ability to subvert, to say the unspoken or unspeakable.
“I am a bad driver,” Booster tells me. “That’s not me making that up.” But it didn’t sit well with him to perpetuate a tired stereotype. “Every time I get honked at by a person, it comes from a real place of turmoil. My brain is like, ‘I’m confirming a stereotype right now for a person.’ And that is a weight white people don’t have to carry around.”
The actor and comedian Jimmy O. Yang, who plays the mercenary Chinese app developer Jian-Yang in the HBO series “           Silicon Valley,” says that comedy was where he found a sense of belonging as an immigrant from Hong Kong. Humor allowed him to access a deeper sense of self-awareness, and telling jokes allowed him to find people who were trying to translate their experiences as he did: “In stand-up, honing material gets more specific and more truthful. In the very beginning, it’s just about me jerking off, right? Then it became about me being Asian — very broad, dumb jokes. Stereotypes that were not specific to me.” But Yang soon began to subvert the jokes, to question assumptions about his identity and his experiences. “When I was growing up,” he tells me, “I was super stereotypical. I played the violin. I was pretty damn good at math. I played Ping-Pong competitively, all that stuff. But those things weren’t stereotypes when I was growing up, because I grew up in Hong Kong. Everybody was Asian. That’s just what everybody did.” I bring up a bit I had seen from one of Yang’s sets from 2014 that evoked clichés of Asian masculinity. In it, he jokes about how, when he goes to the beach, he gets mistaken for a girl from behind. Then he embellishes it: “And from the front, I look like a hot Asian chick!” Yang acknowledges that it was self-deprecating. He adds: “But at the same time, how does me looking like an Asian chick matter? Am I really making a comment on Asian masculinity, or am I making a comment on how society views Asian people?”
This is a negotiation comedians of color from all kinds of backgrounds have to make, and it isn’t one that’s become easier. In 2005, Dave Chappelle famously quit his eponymous Comedy Central show and walked away from a reported $50-million contract. He described the exact moment he knew a line had been crossed: During a taping of a scene in which he played a magical pixie, in blackface, who embodied all of the worst stereotypes about black people, Chappelle heard an audience member, a white man, laugh too loud and for too long. “When he laughed, it made me uncomfortable,” Chappelle            told Time later that year. “As a matter of fact, that was the last thing I shot before I told myself I gotta take [expletive] time out after this. Because my head almost exploded.”
IT IS ONLY in the past three years or so that Hollywood has started to view people of Asian descent differently. We have become, in just the last year alone, a commodity. There’s the “Saturday Night Live” writer Bowen Yang, who lip-syncs to Cardi B on his Twitter account,            @bowenyang, and whose podcast, “           Las Culturistas,” with fellow comedian            Matt Rogers, has a cult following. There’s Jason Kim and            Greta Lee, who are developing an HBO series called “KTown” about a kingpin family in Los Angeles’s Koreatown, and            Randall Park and            Ali Wong’s recent Netflix romantic comedy “           Always Be My Maybe,” and            Ronny Chieng’s 2017 Australian television series “International Student” and            Sheng Wang’s soulful stand-up tour. Collectively, they offer some real hope of overcoming the idea that Asian-Americans’ place in film and television is merely a comedic one.            Alan Yang, who got his start as a writer and producer on “Parks and Recreation” and as a co-creator of “           Master of None,” is preparing his feature-length film debut called “Tigertail,” a multigenerational family drama starring            John Cho.
And their approach to making comedy has changed as well. The jokes address the same stereotypes — bad driving, small stature — but now they’re at the expense of the stereotype, rather than at the comic delivering them. Take Ali Wong describing her marriage in her 2016 Netflix comedy special “Baby Cobra”: “I think my husband and I have a huge unspoken understanding between each other, because he’s half Filipino and half Japanese and I’m half Chinese and half Vietnamese. So, we’re both half fancy Asian ... and half jungle Asian. ... The fancy Asians are the Chinese, the Japanese. They get to do fancy things like host Olympics. Jungle Asians host diseases.” Or take Maya Erskine in her Hulu show “Pen15” with Anna Konkle; Erskine is Japanese-American and portrays a moment when her character is cast as Scary Spice in a re-creation of a Spice Girls video because, she is, as one of the popular girls says, “like, tan.” She imitates submissive stereotypes for a laugh until her older brother — a crush-worthy authority figure as well as, at times, the show’s conscience — points out she’s engaging in racist behavior. It’s a funny performance, and yet both Erskine’s character and the audience are allowed to build an awareness of what is unacceptable.
The stories these comedians tell and the way they tell them will have wider repercussions for the representation of Asian-Americans on film and television, though it’s crucial to understand how persistent these stereotypes really are. In 1994, Margaret Cho was the first Asian-American to have her own prime-time network sitcom: “All-American Girl.” It lasted only one season, and even Cho admits it was something of an artistic failure. “I didn’t realize I was actually the star of the show,” Cho says, “and I was so scared.” After watching Cho’s more recent stand-up, which is explicitly sexual and frank about her body (she has a bit I like where she pulls down her pants and jiggles her tattoo-covered butt at the audience), I have wondered if Cho was too ahead of her time. The film “           The Joy Luck Club” had come out the year before “All-American Girl,” and it had been filled with scenes of families eating traditional Chinese food, of a white man clobbering a prawn with a pair of chopsticks, of old Chinese ladies playing mah-jongg. In her show, Cho, who was 25 at the time, played a version of herself as the rebellious daughter of a traditional Korean family based in San Francisco. She wore heavy black eyeliner and she dated white boys; everything about it, despite the compromises Cho feels she made, defied what was expected of an Asian-American family on the screen. There wasn’t another all-Asian network show until “Fresh Off the Boat” in 2015, more than 20 years later, and that show, about to air its sixth season, remains the only network show to carry that distinction.
That night in the comedy club with my family, I watched my mother and her siblings. They weren’t laughing, but nor, as far as I could tell, were they that upset. They are by nature nice people — but being an immigrant, I suspect, makes you accommodate what you might not have otherwise. To confront a problem proves you don’t understand, that you missed the point, that you didn’t get a joke when everyone else did. My aunt and her brother ordered another round of club sodas, obeying the two-drink minimum. We politely clapped and then we all went home. Later, I understood that the indignity I felt was not a mark on me: Bad humor is merely tedious, an experience to endure and then forget. But good comedy — true comedy — is, at its core, deeply relatable. It makes us wait for that moment where what we knew to be true feels like an epiphany, where we recognize something in ourselves that had never been articulated before. We laugh at ourselves because we hope that the other person will understand, but also because there’s no way to speak to the anger and sadness and rage that is there and will always be there. We laugh in order to let it go.
PHOTO: Several artists have examined the complexities of Asian-American masculinity. The cartoonist Adrian Tomine’s 2007 graphic novel, “Shortcomings” (an excerpt of which is pictured above), explores his own desire surrounding race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY From "Shortcomings," © Adrian Tomine, image courtesy of Drawn &amp; Quarterly FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity; Social Studies
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 05:52 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: T-MAGAZINE
Length: 3265 words
Byline: Thessaly La Force
Highlight: A new generation that includes Joel Kim Booster and Bowen Yang is redefining old notions — while reminding us how much further the culture has to go.
Body


A new generation that includes Joel Kim Booster and Bowen Yang is redefining old notions — while reminding us how much further the culture has to go.
NOT THAT LONG AGO, my family, which includes my mother and her two siblings — all three of whom are Chinese — went to a comedy show at a well-known nightclub in Manhattan. My aunt and uncle, who live in Long Island, had gone there on an early date decades ago. My mom and her sister were visiting from out of town. The sets weren’t much longer than 10 to 15 minutes, and there must have been four or maybe five comedians in total. None of them were of Asian descent, and yet almost immediately, the Asian jokes started: Asians are bad drivers. Asian men are undesirable. Asian men have small penises. Asian women are good in bed because they’re small and docile. My discomfort was palpable. I was disappointed in what I was witnessing, in the laughter I was hearing around us, but I also wasn’t surprised.
There is an accepted kind of humor when it comes to talking about Asian-Americans — it’s a humor comfortable with its own ignorance, like the bully in the schoolyard who pounces on perceived weaknesses and kicks up dirt for a laugh. These types of jokes often concern Asian men’s masculinity, or lack thereof — or the Asian man’s helplessness in life, his neediness, his foolishness, his greed, his feminine demeanor and physicality. He is depicted as lecherous but harmless, silly and creepy. These jokes echo two of the most pernicious stereotypes of Asian men ever to appear onscreen in Western culture, even if today they are largely undiscussed: the detective Charlie Chan, who appeared in a series of films from the 1920s to ’80s, who was neutered and servile; and Fu Manchu, an archetypal evil mastermind whose sinister and predatory behavior was depicted in novels and media for much of the last century. The larger cultural consequences are significant. A            recent NPR “Invisibilia” podcast featuring Yowei Shaw explored the real-life rejection Asian-American men experience today. Shaw cites a 2013 study that reported on online heterosexual dating patterns in the 20 largest American cities: When Asians initiated contact, white men replied to Asian women while white women rarely replied to Asian men. (And when white men reached out to Asian women, Asian women tended to respond to white men over men of their own race.) Shaw interviewed a young Asian-American man who spoke, anonymously, of his sexual alienation as a teenager. He described his experience talking to girls as so: “‘Disdain’ is the word that I’ve come to use to describe this over time. They just viewed me with disdain. They were like, ‘Why are you even talking to me? Like, is this a joke?’”
[Coming soon: the T List newsletter, a weekly roundup of what T Magazine editors are noticing and coveting. Sign up here.]
There’s a joke that the comedian Joel Kim Booster, 31, tells that goes like this: “I’m terrible at math. I don’t know karate. My dick is huge.” Booster is Korean-American and gay. He is handsome, with a square jaw and broad shoulders, and he emanates a sharp self-awareness. His comedic style is vulgar but vulnerable, less shockingly transgressive than plainly open about who he is. Adopted by a white evangelical Christian family in Plainfield, Ill., and home-schooled until he was 16, Booster was one of the thousands of South Korean babies flown to American families for adoption in the 1980s — “the GrubHub of babies,”            as he put it on an episode of “Conan” in 2016. He says his parents discovered he was gay by reading his journal when he was a teenager: “At that point in my life, it wasn’t an introspective ‘thoughts and dreams’ kind of journal,” he says, “but more of a BuzzFeed list of guys’ dicks I was sucking. It was clickbait for my parents.” He likes to joke he knew he was gay before he figured out he was Asian.
Booster is charismatic, full of swagger and sensitivity, and his presence reverberates. When I began watching his sets, I couldn’t quite define what I was enjoying until I realized how rare it was to watch an Asian-American man be himself — appealingly ribald, unapologetically complicated — in front of an audience. But as a half Chinese-American woman, I also found myself reluctant to articulate what Booster represented to me: Here, in America, where Asian-American men are rarely represented in popular culture — and almost never as people who are shown as having desire, whose strength is innate, whose silence is withholding — here was someone right in front of me who contradicted this perceived lack of masculinity. There may now be Henry Golding, who played the self-possessed heir to a Singapore fortune in 2018’s “Crazy Rich Asians,” or the hunky “Asian Bae” (also known as Andrew) in            Issa Rae’s HBO show “           Insecure,” but for the most part, Asian-American men are left out, avoided or emasculated onscreen. Though Asian-American women face equally vexing problems when it comes to representation, our own sexuality — however problematically portrayed, however exoticized — is, for better or worse, accepted. When Asian-American men’s sexuality is granted, it is the exception to the rule.
But if Asian-American men have typically been reduced to nothing more than a joke, then today they are beginning to be seen as possessing their own sexuality — gay or straight, it doesn’t really matter, actually — that points to more inclusive ideas of masculinity. This inclusiveness, however, has its own limitations: Asian-American men in entertainment remain largely confined to the realm of comedy, which has always been Hollywood’s unofficial back door for marginalized performers. Comedy remains a way for the othered — whether that be women, queer people, trans people, plus-size people, people of color or anyone else outside orthodox ideas of beauty and success — to force their face into the consciousness of a world all too happy to ignore them. Humor remains one of the few ways one can reclaim one’s humanity as a performer, to take the worst that can be said and turn it on its head. It offers an opportunity to tell the kinds of stories that are difficult to say too earnestly — to say out loud what doesn’t always make sense, because degradation rarely does. To make the world look at you.
Humor remains one of the few ways one can reclaim one’s humanity as a performer.
Yet there persists a long historical narrative that explains how the idea of the Asian-American man as both sexually limp and rapacious came to be. This stereotype is almost exclusively centered around East and Southeast Asian men, in part because the immigration laws against Chinese people (and later Japanese people, and other Asians) from the last two centuries continue to contribute to today’s notions of Asian male masculinity. Beginning in 1875, legislation was passed barring unmarried Chinese women from entering the United States, leaving half a generation of Chinese immigrant men unable to create families (further restrictions were later applied to all Chinese immigrants, continuing into the 20th century, but by 1910, Chinese women made up only 9.7 percent of Chinese immigrants entering the country). Additionally, many Chinese male immigrants in the 19th and early 20th century took up women’s work, such as laundry and domestic services, as a means to be economically and linguistically self-sufficient. From the perspective of the entertainment industry, this stereotype about Asian men supersedes all others, bolstered by the “model minority” trope as a new wave of Asian immigrants entered the country after racial quotas were abolished in 1965.
The beauty of representation, however, is that one person can never speak for all. And so, the fight for representation is a consistent and stubborn push against being defined by how Hollywood perceives us — we are not white, nor are we black; we are never seen as we are, we are always invisible. And this push, this resistance, is what makes the jokes of someone like Booster, delivered from his perspective as a transnational adoptee and gay man, feel at once both obvious and very surprising.
UNTIL VERY RECENTLY, the character of Long Duk Dong in John Hughes’s 1984 movie “Sixteen Candles” was a kind of stock figure who stood in for our culture’s perception of the Asian man in America. He was an exchange student of ambiguous origin living with the white Baker family. We first meet Dong, who is played by the Japanese-American actor            Gedde Watanabe, after he hangs his head over a bunk bed in front of Samantha, played by Molly Ringwald. “What’s happen’n, hot stuff?” he asks her, in a thick, placeless accent. A gong sounds. Ringwald’s face registers disgust. Later, in another scene, Dong is facedown in the grass, still intoxicated from a party the night before. He looks up at his American host family: “Ohh, no more yanky my wanky! The Donger need food!”
Laughter ends, but it can be hard to shake whatever false truths are bound to a joke. When the comedian and actor Ken Jeong jumped out of a car naked in the 2009 comedy film “           The Hangover,” his flaccid penis got a laugh. Jeong later defended the scene, saying in an interview that it was his suggestion, his decision and his penis. But weren’t they — weren’t we — laughing at his expense? Did it not reinforce what we as a culture are taught to think of Asian men generally?
The heart of comedy is the element of surprise, the way a joke can weave around a room, tell the sympathetic story of someone’s life and then suddenly turn and slap you in the face. The deftness of a comedian lies in his ability to judge the severity of the joke’s transgression — of knowing when and where to cross the line. A good joke can end a quarrel; a bad joke can get someone kicked out of the party. A great joke, however, is inseparable from its ability to subvert, to say the unspoken or unspeakable. When we laugh at the joke, we laugh despite the discomfort. We laugh knowing we’ve just witnessed a taboo dash across the room like a streaker on a soccer field. Comedy gives us permission to let an unspoken thought free.
When I speak to Booster about his humor, I perceive that he feels a sense of responsibility — if not to carry the oppressive, overwhelming burden of representation, then to question the foundation upon which certain stereotypes are built, stereotypes that he has employed in his own routines. He tells me that as his career grew, he started performing more and more to predominantly Asian audiences. His jokes began to change. He says, “I used to have jokes that talked about how it’s funny that I’m adopted and yet I’m still a bad driver. It must be genetic.” When I looked up his older clips, I could see that Booster was already pulling apart the joke — separating his personal incompetence behind the wheel of a car from the stereotype of bad Asian drivers. Here he is in 2017: “But actually, you guys, that might have more to do with being gay and sleeping with men than it has to do with being Asian. Something about being lied to my entire life about what six inches look like — now my depth perception is [expletive].” The audience laughs uproariously.
A great joke is inseparable from its ability to subvert, to say the unspoken or unspeakable.
“I am a bad driver,” Booster tells me. “That’s not me making that up.” But it didn’t sit well with him to perpetuate a tired stereotype. “Every time I get honked at by a person, it comes from a real place of turmoil. My brain is like, ‘I’m confirming a stereotype right now for a person.’ And that is a weight white people don’t have to carry around.”
The actor and comedian Jimmy O. Yang, who plays the mercenary Chinese app developer Jian-Yang in the HBO series “           Silicon Valley,” says that comedy was where he found a sense of belonging as an immigrant from Hong Kong. Humor allowed him to access a deeper sense of self-awareness, and telling jokes allowed him to find people who were trying to translate their experiences as he did: “In stand-up, honing material gets more specific and more truthful. In the very beginning, it’s just about me jerking off, right? Then it became about me being Asian — very broad, dumb jokes. Stereotypes that were not specific to me.” But Yang soon began to subvert the jokes, to question assumptions about his identity and his experiences. “When I was growing up,” he tells me, “I was super stereotypical. I played the violin. I was pretty damn good at math. I played Ping-Pong competitively, all that stuff. But those things weren’t stereotypes when I was growing up, because I grew up in Hong Kong. Everybody was Asian. That’s just what everybody did.” I bring up a bit I had seen from one of Yang’s sets from 2014 that evoked clichés of Asian masculinity. In it, he jokes about how, when he goes to the beach, he gets mistaken for a girl from behind. Then he embellishes it: “And from the front, I look like a hot Asian chick!” Yang acknowledges that it was self-deprecating. He adds: “But at the same time, how does me looking like an Asian chick matter? Am I really making a comment on Asian masculinity, or am I making a comment on how society views Asian people?”
This is a negotiation comedians of color from all kinds of backgrounds have to make, and it isn’t one that’s become easier. In 2005, Dave Chappelle famously quit his eponymous Comedy Central show and walked away from a reported $50-million contract. He described the exact moment he knew a line had been crossed: During a taping of a scene in which he played a magical pixie, in blackface, who embodied all of the worst stereotypes about black people, Chappelle heard an audience member, a white man, laugh too loud and for too long. “When he laughed, it made me uncomfortable,” Chappelle            told Time later that year. “As a matter of fact, that was the last thing I shot before I told myself I gotta take [expletive] time out after this. Because my head almost exploded.”
IT IS ONLY in the past three years or so that Hollywood has started to view people of Asian descent differently. We have become, in just the last year alone, a commodity. There’s the “Saturday Night Live” writer Bowen Yang, who lip-syncs to Cardi B on his Twitter account,            @bowenyang, and whose podcast, “           Las Culturistas,” with fellow comedian            Matt Rogers, has a cult following. There’s Jason Kim and            Greta Lee, who are developing an HBO series called “KTown” about a kingpin family in Los Angeles’s Koreatown, and            Randall Park and            Ali Wong’s recent Netflix romantic comedy “           Always Be My Maybe,” and            Ronny Chieng’s 2017 Australian television series “International Student” and            Sheng Wang’s soulful stand-up tour. Collectively, they offer some real hope of overcoming the idea that Asian-Americans’ place in film and television is merely a comedic one.            Alan Yang, who got his start as a writer and producer on “Parks and Recreation” and as a co-creator of “           Master of None,” is preparing his feature-length film debut called “Tigertail,” a multigenerational family drama starring            John Cho.
And their approach to making comedy has changed as well. The jokes address the same stereotypes — bad driving, small stature — but now they’re at the expense of the stereotype, rather than at the comic delivering them. Take Ali Wong describing her marriage in her 2016 Netflix comedy special “Baby Cobra”: “I think my husband and I have a huge unspoken understanding between each other, because he’s half Filipino and half Japanese and I’m half Chinese and half Vietnamese. So, we’re both half fancy Asian ... and half jungle Asian. ... The fancy Asians are the Chinese, the Japanese. They get to do fancy things like host Olympics. Jungle Asians host diseases.” Or take Maya Erskine in her Hulu show “Pen15” with Anna Konkle; Erskine is Japanese-American and portrays a moment when her character is cast as Scary Spice in a re-creation of a Spice Girls video because, she is, as one of the popular girls says, “like, tan.” She imitates submissive stereotypes for a laugh until her older brother — a crush-worthy authority figure as well as, at times, the show’s conscience — points out she’s engaging in racist behavior. It’s a funny performance, and yet both Erskine’s character and the audience are allowed to build an awareness of what is unacceptable.
The stories these comedians tell and the way they tell them will have wider repercussions for the representation of Asian-Americans on film and television, though it’s crucial to understand how persistent these stereotypes really are. In 1994, Margaret Cho was the first Asian-American to have her own prime-time network sitcom: “All-American Girl.” It lasted only one season, and even Cho admits it was something of an artistic failure. “I didn’t realize I was actually the star of the show,” Cho says, “and I was so scared.” After watching Cho’s more recent stand-up, which is explicitly sexual and frank about her body (she has a bit I like where she pulls down her pants and jiggles her tattoo-covered butt at the audience), I have wondered if Cho was too ahead of her time. The film “           The Joy Luck Club” had come out the year before “All-American Girl,” and it had been filled with scenes of families eating traditional Chinese food, of a white man clobbering a prawn with a pair of chopsticks, of old Chinese ladies playing mah-jongg. In her show, Cho, who was 25 at the time, played a version of herself as the rebellious daughter of a traditional Korean family based in San Francisco. She wore heavy black eyeliner and she dated white boys; everything about it, despite the compromises Cho feels she made, defied what was expected of an Asian-American family on the screen. There wasn’t another all-Asian network show until “Fresh Off the Boat” in 2015, more than 20 years later, and that show, about to air its sixth season, remains the only network show to carry that distinction.
That night in the comedy club with my family, I watched my mother and her siblings. They weren’t laughing, but nor, as far as I could tell, were they that upset. They are by nature nice people — but being an immigrant, I suspect, makes you accommodate what you might not have otherwise. To confront a problem proves you don’t understand, that you missed the point, that you didn’t get a joke when everyone else did. My aunt and her brother ordered another round of club sodas, obeying the two-drink minimum. We politely clapped and then we all went home. Later, I understood that the indignity I felt was not a mark on me: Bad humor is merely tedious, an experience to endure and then forget. But good comedy — true comedy — is, at its core, deeply relatable. It makes us wait for that moment where what we knew to be true feels like an epiphany, where we recognize something in ourselves that had never been articulated before. We laugh at ourselves because we hope that the other person will understand, but also because there’s no way to speak to the anger and sadness and rage that is there and will always be there. We laugh in order to let it go.
PHOTO: Several artists have examined the complexities of Asian-American masculinity. The cartoonist Adrian Tomine’s 2007 graphic novel, “Shortcomings” (an excerpt of which is pictured above), explores his own desire surrounding race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY From "Shortcomings," © Adrian Tomine, image courtesy of Drawn &amp; Quarterly FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Trade War, Andrew Luck, U.S. Open: Your Monday Briefing
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 08:28 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1564 words
Byline: Chris Stanford
Highlight: Here’s what you need to know.
Body


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
We’re covering the final day of the Group of 7 meeting in France, the surprise retirement of the N.F.L. quarterback Andrew Luck, and the discovery of toxic algae in New York City.
Group of 7 leaders agreed on a $20 million aid package to help Brazil and its neighbors fight the fires in the Amazon rain forest, President Emmanuel Macron of France said.
A positive note in the trade war
President Trump said today that the U.S. and China would soon restart talks and called President Xi Jinping a “great leader,” three days after branding him an “enemy” of the U.S. 
Mr. Trump’s remarks came in Biarritz, France, at the annual meeting of the Group of 7 industrialized democracies. The president also suggested that next year’s meeting could be held at one of his properties. Here are the latest updates.
Over the weekend, Mr. Trump asserted that he had the authority to order American companies out of China, but then said he was having “second thoughts” about new tariffs on Chinese goods. His aides later said that Mr. Trump regretted only that he had not raised tariffs faster.
News analysis: Determined not to anger Mr. Trump, the other Group of 7 leaders sought to register their differences in the most flattering of tones, our chief White House correspondent writes.
Another angle: At the annual conference of central bankers and economists in Jackson, Wyo., last week, policymakers closed ranks around the Federal Reserve chief, Jerome Powell, who has faced persistent criticism from Mr. Trump.
A $6 million drug claim
As ultraexpensive drugs — some costing millions of dollars for one patient — become more common, they’re prompting a debate over whether Americans will be priced out of lifesaving treatments.
Scientific advances have led to cures for illnesses that were once a death sentence. And with about 90 percent of all U.S. prescriptions filled with cheaper generic drugs, pharmaceutical companies are looking for profits in rare-disease treatments.
Why it matters: Some small businesses have considered ending employee health coverage after being hit with just one employee’s claim for an ultraexpensive treatment. Others have drastically cut coverage for drugs, and employers are considering excluding coverage for expensive treatments.
The Weekly: The latest episode of The Times’s TV show is about the life-changing drugs that few can afford. Read behind-the-scenes notes about the episode, which is available on FX and Hulu.
The sisters who accused Jeffrey Epstein
Other women have come forward with more serious claims of rape and child abuse against Mr. Epstein, but reports made 23 years ago by Maria and Annie Farmer are the earliest known allegations about his physical contact with girls and young women. 
The sisters spoke to The Times about their accusations, offering a look at how Mr. Epstein, who killed himself in prison this month, managed to avoid significant scrutiny for years.
The Daily: Today’s episode is about the sisters’ accusations.
Another angle: Prince Andrew, the son of Queen Elizabeth II of Britain, broke a long silence about his friendship with Mr. Epstein. The prince denied knowing about or seeing the sexual trafficking and exploitation of underage girls.
Battered N.F.L. star says he’s had enough 
Andrew Luck, who became an instant star for the Indianapolis Colts when he was selected as the No. 1 overall pick in the 2012 draft, surprised the football world over the weekend by retiring at 29, citing health concerns.
“It was,” our N.F.L. reporter writes, “one of the more vivid examples of the changing dynamics of a league striving to portray the game as safer than ever while its players increasingly weigh the consequences of continuing a career where the long-term physical issues only build as the seasons pile up.”
Mr. Luck, a quarterback, missed 26 games in his N.F.L. career because of severe injuries. 
Quotable: “It felt like a weight has lifted,” he said on Saturday. “Part of my journey going forward is to figure out how to get out of pain.”
If you have 15 minutes, this is worth it
How U.S. gun laws fuel a crisis abroad
Gun control can seem like a purely domestic issue, but American firearms have poured into neighboring countries and caused record violence, in part because of federal and state laws that make it difficult to track the weapons.
Above, the police conducting a raid in Jamaica, where more than 80 percent of homicides are committed with guns, most of them from the U.S. Drawing on court documents, case files, interviews and confidential data from both countries, The Times examined the trend, tracing a single gun to nine homicides.
Here’s what else is happening
Warning shot in Hong Kong: Riot police officers drew their pistols on Sunday and unleashed rounds of tear gas at protesters, who threw bricks and firebombs.
2020 races: Joe Walsh, the conservative radio show host and former Republican lawmaker from Illinois, said he would challenge President Trump for the party’s nomination. Separately, Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff in Arizona who built a reputation as an immigration hard-liner,            said he would run for his old office.
Targeting journalists: A network of conservative operatives allied with the White House has compiled potentially embarrassing social media posts and other public statements by employees at several news organizations, including The Times.
Moving a capital: President Joko Widodo of Indonesia proposed building a capital on the island of Borneo to replace Jakarta, a polluted city of 10 million.
Toxic algae: Blue-green blooms that can harm humans and pets have been found in lakes and ponds in three New York City parks.
Snapshot: Above, Althea Gibson at the national women’s tennis championships in 1958. A statue of Ms. Gibson, the first black player to be ranked No. 1 in the world, will be unveiled today at the U.S. Open. We’ll have live coverage of the tournament when play begins at 11 a.m. Eastern. Here are today’s matchups for            the women and            the men.
Metropolitan Diary: In this week’s column, a very chunky scarf and other tales of New York City.
What we’re reading: This quiz from CNN. Lynda Richardson, a travel editor, writes: “Here’s a fascinating quiz about the most effective — and often surprising — ways that individuals, policymakers and businesses can curb climate change. Even if you get just about everything wrong, you’ll learn a lot.”
Now, a break from the news
Cook: Chocolate pudding made with oat milk takes only 15 minutes.
Watch: “El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie,” a Netflix film based on the TV show, will expand on the story of Jesse Pinkman.
Go: Tom Hiddleston is making his Broadway debut as the bottled-up husband wearing a “mask of control” in Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal.” It’s at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater.
Read: Petina Gappah was inspired by William Faulkner, T.S. Eliot and Toni Morrison for “Out of Darkness, Shining Light,” a fictional account of the journey transporting the body of the explorer David Livingstone.
Smarter Living: The skies are getting bumpier because of climate change. But experts say that severe turbulence remains a very rare occurrence, and airlines try to choose routes to avoid it. Still, remain buckled up throughout your flight.
And we also look at the pros and cons of using technology to keep tabs on your home when you’re away.
And now for the Back Story on …
Territorial purchases 
Last week, Denmark’s prime minister dismissed President Trump’s interest in buying Greenland as “absurd.” The president didn’t it take kindly.
The U.S. has acquired a great deal of territory through monetary means, though most big purchases came long ago. The Louisiana Purchase from France in 1803 added about 828,000 square miles of land that eventually created all or part of 15 states. 
In 1867, Secretary of State William Seward negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia, which some Americans denounced as “Seward’s Folly.”
The U.S. bought land from Denmark, too.
During World War I, fears that Germany might secure the Danish Virgin Islands renewed the U.S.’s longstanding interest in them. The Danes had been trying to get rid of the Caribbean islands since the mid-1800s, because their plantations had collapsed after a slave revolt forced the abolition of slavery in the colony.
Denmark resisted a deal without provisions for the population, but agreed to sell after President Woodrow Wilson’s secretary of state implied that the U.S. might occupy the islands.
And in 1946, the U.S. offered the country $100 million to buy Greenland. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris
Thank you
Melina Delkic helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson and Eleanor Stanford wrote the break from the news. Will Dudding, an assistant in the Standards Department, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. 
P.S.
 We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about an early accusation of sexual assault against Jeffrey Epstein.
 Here’s today’s            Mini Crossword, and a clue: Bird whose extinction was caused by humans (four letters).            You can find all our puzzles here. 
 The Times’s research and development team            shared its research on smart speakers on the Times Open site, which discusses how our digital products get made. 
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Trade War, Andrew Luck, U.S. Open: Your Monday Briefing
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 07:33 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1535 words
Byline: Chris Stanford
Highlight: Here’s what you need to know.
Body


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
We’re covering the final day of the Group of 7 meeting in France, the surprise retirement of the N.F.L. quarterback Andrew Luck, and the discovery of toxic algae in New York City.
A positive note in the trade war
President Trump said today that the U.S. and China would soon restart talks and called President Xi Jinping a “great leader,” three days after branding him an “enemy” of the U.S. 
Mr. Trump’s remarks came in Biarritz, France, at the annual meeting of the Group of 7 industrialized democracies. The president also suggested that next year’s meeting could be held at one of his properties. Here are the latest updates.
Over the weekend, Mr. Trump asserted that he had the authority to order American companies out of China, but then said he was having “second thoughts” about new tariffs on Chinese goods. His aides later said that Mr. Trump regretted only that he had not raised tariffs faster.
News analysis: Determined not to anger Mr. Trump, the other Group of 7 leaders sought to register their differences in the most flattering of tones, our chief White House correspondent writes.
Another angle: At the annual conference of central bankers and economists in Jackson, Wyo., last week, policymakers closed ranks around the Federal Reserve chief, Jerome Powell, who has faced persistent criticism from Mr. Trump.
A $6 million drug claim
As ultraexpensive drugs — some costing millions of dollars for one patient — become more common, they’re prompting a debate over whether Americans will be priced out of lifesaving treatments.
Scientific advances have led to cures for illnesses that were once a death sentence. And with about 90 percent of all U.S. prescriptions filled with cheaper generic drugs, pharmaceutical companies are looking for profits in rare-disease treatments.
Why it matters: Some small businesses have considered ending employee health coverage after being hit with just one employee’s claim for an ultraexpensive treatment. Others have drastically cut coverage for drugs, and employers are considering excluding coverage for expensive treatments.
The Weekly: The latest episode of The Times’s TV show is about the life-changing drugs that few can afford. Read behind-the-scenes notes about the episode, which is available on FX and Hulu.
The sisters who accused Jeffrey Epstein
Other women have come forward with more serious claims of rape and child abuse against Mr. Epstein, but reports made 23 years ago by Maria and Annie Farmer are the earliest known allegations about his physical contact with girls and young women. 
The sisters spoke to The Times about their accusations, offering a look at how Mr. Epstein, who killed himself in prison this month, managed to avoid significant scrutiny for years.
The Daily: Today’s episode is about the sisters’ accusations.
Another angle: Prince Andrew, the son of Queen Elizabeth II of Britain, broke a long silence about his friendship with Mr. Epstein. The prince denied knowing about or seeing the sexual trafficking and exploitation of underage girls.
Battered N.F.L. star says he’s had enough 
Andrew Luck, who became an instant star for the Indianapolis Colts when he was selected as the No. 1 overall pick in the 2012 draft, surprised the football world over the weekend by retiring at 29, citing health concerns.
“It was,” our N.F.L. reporter writes, “one of the more vivid examples of the changing dynamics of a league striving to portray the game as safer than ever while its players increasingly weigh the consequences of continuing a career where the long-term physical issues only build as the seasons pile up.”
Mr. Luck, a quarterback, missed 26 games in his N.F.L. career because of severe injuries. 
Quotable: “It felt like a weight has lifted,” he said on Saturday. “Part of my journey going forward is to figure out how to get out of pain.”
If you have 15 minutes, this is worth it
How U.S. gun laws fuel a crisis abroad
Gun control can seem like a purely domestic issue, but American firearms have poured into neighboring countries and caused record violence, in part because of federal and state laws that make it difficult to track the weapons.
Above, the police conducting a raid in Jamaica, where more than 80 percent of homicides are committed with guns, most of them from the U.S. Drawing on court documents, case files, interviews and confidential data from both countries, The Times examined the trend, tracing a single gun to nine homicides.
Here’s what else is happening
Warning shot in Hong Kong: Riot police officers drew their pistols on Sunday and unleashed rounds of tear gas at protesters, who threw bricks and firebombs.
2020 races: Joe Walsh, the conservative radio show host and former Republican lawmaker from Illinois, said he would challenge President Trump for the party’s nomination. Separately, Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff in Arizona who built a reputation as an immigration hard-liner,            said he would run for his old office.
Targeting journalists: A network of conservative operatives allied with the White House has compiled potentially embarrassing social media posts and other public statements by employees at several news organizations, including The Times.
Moving a capital: President Joko Widodo of Indonesia proposed building a capital on the island of Borneo to replace Jakarta, a polluted city of 10 million.
Toxic algae: Blue-green blooms that can harm humans and pets have been found in lakes and ponds in three New York City parks.
Snapshot: Above, Althea Gibson at the national women’s tennis championships in 1958. A statue of Ms. Gibson, the first black player to be ranked No. 1 in the world, will be unveiled today at the U.S. Open. We’ll have live coverage of the tournament when play begins at 11 a.m. Eastern. Here are today’s matchups for            the women and            the men.
Metropolitan Diary: In this week’s column, a very chunky scarf and other tales of New York City.
What we’re reading: This quiz from CNN. Lynda Richardson, a travel editor, writes: “Here’s a fascinating quiz about the most effective — and often surprising — ways that individuals, policymakers and businesses can curb climate change. Even if you get just about everything wrong, you’ll learn a lot.”
Now, a break from the news
Cook: Chocolate pudding made with oat milk takes only 15 minutes.
Watch: “El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie,” a Netflix film based on the TV show, will expand on the story of Jesse Pinkman.
Go: Tom Hiddleston is making his Broadway debut as the bottled-up husband wearing a “mask of control” in Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal.” It’s at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater.
Read: Petina Gappah was inspired by William Faulkner, T.S. Eliot and Toni Morrison for “Out of Darkness, Shining Light,” a fictional account of the journey transporting the body of the explorer David Livingstone.
Smarter Living: The skies are getting bumpier because of climate change. But experts say that severe turbulence remains a very rare occurrence, and airlines try to choose routes to avoid it. Still, remain buckled up throughout your flight.
And we also look at the pros and cons of using technology to keep tabs on your home when you’re away.
And now for the Back Story on …
Territorial purchases 
Last week, Denmark’s prime minister dismissed President Trump’s interest in buying Greenland as “absurd.” The president didn’t it take kindly.
The U.S. has acquired a great deal of territory through monetary means, though most big purchases came long ago. The Louisiana Purchase from France in 1803 added about 828,000 square miles of land that eventually created all or part of 15 states. 
In 1867, Secretary of State William Seward negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia, which some Americans denounced as “Seward’s Folly.”
The U.S. bought land from Denmark, too.
During World War I, fears that Germany might secure the Danish Virgin Islands renewed the U.S.’s longstanding interest in them. The Danes had been trying to get rid of the Caribbean islands since the mid-1800s, because their plantations had collapsed after a slave revolt forced the abolition of slavery in the colony.
Denmark resisted a deal without provisions for the population, but agreed to sell after President Woodrow Wilson’s secretary of state implied that the U.S. might occupy the islands.
And in 1946, the U.S. offered the country $100 million to buy Greenland. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris
Thank you
Melina Delkic helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson and Eleanor Stanford wrote the break from the news. Will Dudding, an assistant in the Standards Department, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. 
P.S.
 We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about an early accusation of sexual assault against Jeffrey Epstein.
 Here’s today’s            Mini Crossword, and a clue: Bird whose extinction was caused by humans (four letters).            You can find all our puzzles here. 
 The Times’s research and development team            shared its research on smart speakers on the Times Open site, which discusses how our digital products get made. 
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Your Monday Briefing
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 06:14 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1510 words
Byline: Chris Stanford
Highlight: Trade War, Andrew Luck, U.S. Open: Here’s what you need to know.
Body


Good morning.
We’re covering the final day of the Group of 7 meeting in France, the surprise retirement of the N.F.L. quarterback Andrew Luck, and the discovery of toxic algae in New York City.
A positive note in the trade war
President Trump said today that the U.S. and China would soon restart talks and called President Xi Jinping a “great leader,” three days after branding him an “enemy” of the U.S. Mr. Trump’s remarks came in Biarritz, France, at the annual meeting of the Group of 7 industrialized democracies. Here are the latest updates.
Over the weekend, Mr. Trump asserted that he had the authority to order American companies out of China, but then said he was having “second thoughts” about new tariffs on Chinese goods. His aides later said that Mr. Trump regretted only that he had not raised tariffs faster.
News analysis: Determined not to anger Mr. Trump, the other Group of 7 leaders sought to register their differences in the most flattering of tones, our chief White House correspondent writes.
Another angle: At the annual conference of central bankers and economists in Jackson, Wyo., last week, policymakers closed ranks around the Federal Reserve chief, Jerome Powell, who has faced persistent criticism from Mr. Trump.
A $6 million drug claim
As ultraexpensive drugs — some costing millions of dollars for one patient — become more common, they’re prompting a debate over whether Americans will be priced out of lifesaving treatments.
Scientific advances have led to cures for illnesses that were once a death sentence. And with about 90 percent of all U.S. prescriptions filled with cheaper generic drugs, pharmaceutical companies are looking for profits in rare-disease treatments.
Why it matters: Some small businesses have considered ending employee health coverage after being hit with just one employee’s claim for an ultraexpensive treatment. Others have drastically cut coverage for drugs, and employers are considering excluding coverage for expensive treatments.
The Weekly: The latest episode of The Times’s TV show is about the life-changing drugs that few can afford. Read behind-the-scenes notes about the episode, which is available on FX and Hulu.
The sisters who accused Jeffrey Epstein
Other women have come forward with more serious claims of rape and child abuse against Mr. Epstein, but reports made 23 years ago by Maria and Annie Farmer are the earliest known allegations about his physical contact with girls and young women. 
The sisters spoke to The Times about their accusations, offering a look at how Mr. Epstein, who killed himself in prison this month, managed to avoid significant scrutiny for years.
The Daily: Today’s episode is about the sisters’ accusations.
Another angle: Prince Andrew, the son of Queen Elizabeth II of Britain, broke a long silence about his friendship with Mr. Epstein. The prince denied knowing about or seeing the sexual trafficking and exploitation of underage girls.
Battered N.F.L. star says he’s had enough 
Andrew Luck, who became an instant star for the Indianapolis Colts when he was selected as the No. 1 overall pick in the 2012 draft, surprised the football world over the weekend by retiring at 29, citing health concerns.
“It was,” our N.F.L. reporter writes, “one of the more vivid examples of the changing dynamics of a league striving to portray the game as safer than ever while its players increasingly weigh the consequences of continuing a career where the long-term physical issues only build as the seasons pile up.”
Mr. Luck, a quarterback, missed 26 games in his N.F.L. career because of severe injuries. 
Quotable: “It felt like a weight has lifted,” he said on Saturday. “Part of my journey going forward is to figure out how to get out of pain.”
If you have 15 minutes, this is worth it
How U.S. gun laws fuel a crisis abroad
Gun control can seem like a purely domestic issue, but American firearms have poured into neighboring countries and caused record violence, in part because of federal and state laws that make it difficult to track the weapons.
Above, the police conducting a raid in Jamaica, where more than 80 percent of homicides are committed with guns, most of them from the U.S. Drawing on court documents, case files, interviews and confidential data from both countries, The Times examined the trend, tracing a single gun to nine homicides.
Here’s what else is happening
Warning shot in Hong Kong: Riot police officers drew their pistols on Sunday and unleashed rounds of tear gas at protesters, who threw bricks and firebombs.
2020 races: Joe Walsh, the conservative radio show host and former Republican lawmaker from Illinois, said he would challenge President Trump for the party’s nomination. Separately, Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff in Arizona who built a reputation as an immigration hard-liner,            said he would run for his old office.
Targeting journalists: A network of conservative operatives allied with the White House has compiled potentially embarrassing social media posts and other public statements by employees at several news organizations, including The Times.
Moving a capital: President Joko Widodo of Indonesia proposed building a capital on the island of Borneo to replace Jakarta, a polluted city of 10 million.
Toxic algae: Blue-green blooms that can harm humans and pets have been found in lakes and ponds in three New York City parks.
Snapshot: Above, Althea Gibson at the national women’s tennis championships in 1958. A statue of Ms. Gibson, the first black player to be ranked No. 1 in the world, will be unveiled today at the U.S. Open. We’ll have live coverage of the tournament when play begins at 11 a.m. Eastern. Here are today’s matchups for            the women and            the men.
Metropolitan Diary: In this week’s column, a very chunky scarf and other tales of New York City.
What we’re reading: This quiz from CNN. Lynda Richardson, a travel editor, writes: “Here’s a fascinating quiz about the most effective — and often surprising — ways that individuals, policymakers and businesses can curb climate change. Even if you get just about everything wrong, you’ll learn a lot.”
Now, a break from the news
Cook: Chocolate pudding made with oat milk takes only 15 minutes.
Watch: “El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie,” a Netflix film based on the TV show, will expand on the story of Jesse Pinkman.
Go: Tom Hiddleston is making his Broadway debut as the bottled-up husband wearing a “mask of control” in Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal.” It’s at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater.
Read: Petina Gappah was inspired by William Faulkner, T.S. Eliot and Toni Morrison for “Out of Darkness, Shining Light,” a fictional account of the journey transporting the body of the explorer David Livingstone.
Smarter Living: The skies are getting bumpier because of climate change. But experts say that severe turbulence remains a very rare occurrence, and airlines try to choose routes to avoid it. Still, remain buckled up throughout your flight.
And we also look at the pros and cons of using technology to keep tabs on your home when you’re away.
And now for the Back Story on …
Territorial purchases 
Last week, Denmark’s prime minister dismissed President Trump’s interest in buying Greenland as “absurd.” The president didn’t it take kindly.
The U.S. has acquired a great deal of territory through monetary means, though most big purchases came long ago. The Louisiana Purchase from France in 1803 added about 828,000 square miles of land that eventually created all or part of 15 states. 
In 1867, Secretary of State William Seward negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia, which some Americans denounced as “Seward’s Folly.”
The U.S. bought land from Denmark, too.
During World War I, fears that Germany might secure the Danish Virgin Islands renewed the U.S.’s longstanding interest in them. The Danes had been trying to get rid of the Caribbean islands since the mid-1800s, because their plantations had collapsed after a slave revolt forced the abolition of slavery in the colony.
Denmark resisted a deal without provisions for the population, but agreed to sell after President Woodrow Wilson’s secretary of state implied that the U.S. might occupy the islands.
And in 1946, the U.S. offered the country $100 million to buy Greenland. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris
Thank you
Melina Delkic helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson and Eleanor Stanford wrote the break from the news. Will Dudding, an assistant in the Standards Department, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. 
P.S.
 We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about an early accusation of sexual assault against Jeffrey Epstein.
 Here’s today’s            Mini Crossword, and a clue: Bird whose extinction was caused by humans (four letters).            You can find all our puzzles here. 
 The Times’s research and development team            shared its research on smart speakers on the Times Open site, which discusses how our digital products get made. 
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Your Monday Briefing
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 06:14 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1510 words
Byline: Chris Stanford
Highlight: Trade War, Andrew Luck, U.S. Open: Here’s what you need to know.
Body


Good morning.
We’re covering the final day of the Group of 7 meeting in France, the surprise retirement of the N.F.L. quarterback Andrew Luck, and the discovery of toxic algae in New York City.
A positive note in the trade war
President Trump said today that the U.S. and China would soon restart talks and called President Xi Jinping a “great leader,” three days after branding him an “enemy” of the U.S. Mr. Trump’s remarks came in Biarritz, France, at the annual meeting of the Group of 7 industrialized democracies. Here are the latest updates.
Over the weekend, Mr. Trump asserted that he had the authority to order American companies out of China, but then said he was having “second thoughts” about new tariffs on Chinese goods. His aides later said that Mr. Trump regretted only that he had not raised tariffs faster.
News analysis: Determined not to anger Mr. Trump, the other Group of 7 leaders sought to register their differences in the most flattering of tones, our chief White House correspondent writes.
Another angle: At the annual conference of central bankers and economists in Jackson, Wyo., last week, policymakers closed ranks around the Federal Reserve chief, Jerome Powell, who has faced persistent criticism from Mr. Trump.
A $6 million drug claim
As ultraexpensive drugs — some costing millions of dollars for one patient — become more common, they’re prompting a debate over whether Americans will be priced out of lifesaving treatments.
Scientific advances have led to cures for illnesses that were once a death sentence. And with about 90 percent of all U.S. prescriptions filled with cheaper generic drugs, pharmaceutical companies are looking for profits in rare-disease treatments.
Why it matters: Some small businesses have considered ending employee health coverage after being hit with just one employee’s claim for an ultraexpensive treatment. Others have drastically cut coverage for drugs, and employers are considering excluding coverage for expensive treatments.
The Weekly: The latest episode of The Times’s TV show is about the life-changing drugs that few can afford. Read behind-the-scenes notes about the episode, which is available on FX and Hulu.
The sisters who accused Jeffrey Epstein
Other women have come forward with more serious claims of rape and child abuse against Mr. Epstein, but reports made 23 years ago by Maria and Annie Farmer are the earliest known allegations about his physical contact with girls and young women. 
The sisters spoke to The Times about their accusations, offering a look at how Mr. Epstein, who killed himself in prison this month, managed to avoid significant scrutiny for years.
The Daily: Today’s episode is about the sisters’ accusations.
Another angle: Prince Andrew, the son of Queen Elizabeth II of Britain, broke a long silence about his friendship with Mr. Epstein. The prince denied knowing about or seeing the sexual trafficking and exploitation of underage girls.
Battered N.F.L. star says he’s had enough 
Andrew Luck, who became an instant star for the Indianapolis Colts when he was selected as the No. 1 overall pick in the 2012 draft, surprised the football world over the weekend by retiring at 29, citing health concerns.
“It was,” our N.F.L. reporter writes, “one of the more vivid examples of the changing dynamics of a league striving to portray the game as safer than ever while its players increasingly weigh the consequences of continuing a career where the long-term physical issues only build as the seasons pile up.”
Mr. Luck, a quarterback, missed 26 games in his N.F.L. career because of severe injuries. 
Quotable: “It felt like a weight has lifted,” he said on Saturday. “Part of my journey going forward is to figure out how to get out of pain.”
If you have 15 minutes, this is worth it
How U.S. gun laws fuel a crisis abroad
Gun control can seem like a purely domestic issue, but American firearms have poured into neighboring countries and caused record violence, in part because of federal and state laws that make it difficult to track the weapons.
Above, the police conducting a raid in Jamaica, where more than 80 percent of homicides are committed with guns, most of them from the U.S. Drawing on court documents, case files, interviews and confidential data from both countries, The Times examined the trend, tracing a single gun to nine homicides.
Here’s what else is happening
Warning shot in Hong Kong: Riot police officers drew their pistols on Sunday and unleashed rounds of tear gas at protesters, who threw bricks and firebombs.
2020 races: Joe Walsh, the conservative radio show host and former Republican lawmaker from Illinois, said he would challenge President Trump for the party’s nomination. Separately, Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff in Arizona who built a reputation as an immigration hard-liner,            said he would run for his old office.
Targeting journalists: A network of conservative operatives allied with the White House has compiled potentially embarrassing social media posts and other public statements by employees at several news organizations, including The Times.
Moving a capital: President Joko Widodo of Indonesia proposed building a capital on the island of Borneo to replace Jakarta, a polluted city of 10 million.
Toxic algae: Blue-green blooms that can harm humans and pets have been found in lakes and ponds in three New York City parks.
Snapshot: Above, Althea Gibson at the national women’s tennis championships in 1958. A statue of Ms. Gibson, the first black player to be ranked No. 1 in the world, will be unveiled today at the U.S. Open. We’ll have live coverage of the tournament when play begins at 11 a.m. Eastern. Here are today’s matchups for            the women and            the men.
Metropolitan Diary: In this week’s column, a very chunky scarf and other tales of New York City.
What we’re reading: This quiz from CNN. Lynda Richardson, a travel editor, writes: “Here’s a fascinating quiz about the most effective — and often surprising — ways that individuals, policymakers and businesses can curb climate change. Even if you get just about everything wrong, you’ll learn a lot.”
Now, a break from the news
Cook: Chocolate pudding made with oat milk takes only 15 minutes.
Watch: “El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie,” a Netflix film based on the TV show, will expand on the story of Jesse Pinkman.
Go: Tom Hiddleston is making his Broadway debut as the bottled-up husband wearing a “mask of control” in Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal.” It’s at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater.
Read: Petina Gappah was inspired by William Faulkner, T.S. Eliot and Toni Morrison for “Out of Darkness, Shining Light,” a fictional account of the journey transporting the body of the explorer David Livingstone.
Smarter Living: The skies are getting bumpier because of climate change. But experts say that severe turbulence remains a very rare occurrence, and airlines try to choose routes to avoid it. Still, remain buckled up throughout your flight.
And we also look at the pros and cons of using technology to keep tabs on your home when you’re away.
And now for the Back Story on …
Territorial purchases 
Last week, Denmark’s prime minister dismissed President Trump’s interest in buying Greenland as “absurd.” The president didn’t it take kindly.
The U.S. has acquired a great deal of territory through monetary means, though most big purchases came long ago. The Louisiana Purchase from France in 1803 added about 828,000 square miles of land that eventually created all or part of 15 states. 
In 1867, Secretary of State William Seward negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia, which some Americans denounced as “Seward’s Folly.”
The U.S. bought land from Denmark, too.
During World War I, fears that Germany might secure the Danish Virgin Islands renewed the U.S.’s longstanding interest in them. The Danes had been trying to get rid of the Caribbean islands since the mid-1800s, because their plantations had collapsed after a slave revolt forced the abolition of slavery in the colony.
Denmark resisted a deal without provisions for the population, but agreed to sell after President Woodrow Wilson’s secretary of state implied that the U.S. might occupy the islands.
And in 1946, the U.S. offered the country $100 million to buy Greenland. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris
Thank you
Melina Delkic helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson and Eleanor Stanford wrote the break from the news. Will Dudding, an assistant in the Standards Department, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. 
P.S.
 We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about an early accusation of sexual assault against Jeffrey Epstein.
 Here’s today’s            Mini Crossword, and a clue: Bird whose extinction was caused by humans (four letters).            You can find all our puzzles here. 
 The Times’s research and development team            shared its research on smart speakers on the Times Open site, which discusses how our digital products get made. 
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document

Date and Time: Monday, August 26, 2019 8:52:00 AM EDT
Job Number: 95794584
Documents (10)
1. Your Monday Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
2. Your Monday Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
3. Laundry Workers Are Fighting Back
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
4. Trump Revives the Jewish Left
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
5. Valley of the Dollars
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
6. Employers Are Wringing Their Hands
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
7. Hiring Is Very Hard for Restaurants These Days. Now They May Have to Fire.
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
8. In Aftermath of El Paso Attack, a Reckoning on Texas’s Divisive Political Rhetoric
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
9. A Melting Pot of Immigrants, and of Views on Immigration Laws
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
10. In Wisconsin Swing District, a Range of Views on Immigration
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times


Your Monday Briefing
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 05:45 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1508 words
Byline: Chris Stanford
Highlight: Trade War, Andrew Luck, U.S. Open: Here’s what you need to know.
Body


Good morning.
We’re covering the final day of the Group of 7 meeting in France, the surprise retirement of the N.F.L. quarterback Andrew Luck, and the discovery of toxic algae in New York City.
A positive note in the trade war
President Trump said today that the U.S. and China would soon restart talks and called President Xi Jinping a “great leader,” three days after branding him an “enemy” of the U.S. Mr. Trump’s remarks came in Biarritz, France, at the annual meeting of the Group of 7 industrialized democracies. Here are the latest updates.
Over the weekend, Mr. Trump asserted that he had the authority to order American companies out of China, but then said he was having “second thoughts” about new tariffs on Chinese goods. His aides later said that Mr. Trump regretted only that he had not raised tariffs faster.
News analysis: Determined not to anger Mr. Trump, the other Group of 7 leaders sought to register their differences in the most flattering of tones, our chief White House correspondent writes.
Another angle: At the annual conference of central bankers and economists in Jackson, Wyo., last week, policymakers closed ranks around the Federal Reserve chief, Jerome Powell, who has faced persistent criticism from Mr. Trump.
A $6 million drug claim
As ultraexpensive drugs — some costing millions of dollars for one patient — become more common, they’re prompting a debate over whether Americans will be priced out of lifesaving treatments.
Scientific advances have led to cures for illnesses that were once a death sentence. And with about 90 percent of all U.S. prescriptions filled with cheaper generic drugs, pharmaceutical companies are looking for profits in rare-disease treatments.
Why it matters: Some small businesses have considered ending employee health coverage after being hit with just one employee’s claim for an ultraexpensive treatment. Others have drastically cut coverage for drugs, and employers are considering excluding coverage for expensive treatments.
The Weekly: The latest episode of The Times’s TV show is about the life-changing drugs that few can afford. Read behind-the-scenes notes about the episode, which is available on FX and Hulu.
The sisters who accused Jeffrey Epstein
Other women have come forward with more serious claims of rape and child abuse against Mr. Epstein, but reports made 23 years ago by Maria and Annie Farmer are the earliest known allegations about his physical contact with girls and young women. 
The sisters spoke to The Times about their accusations, offering a look at how Mr. Epstein, who killed himself in prison this month, managed to avoid significant scrutiny for years.
The Daily: Today’s episode is about the sisters’ accusations.
Another angle: Prince Andrew, the son of Queen Elizabeth II of Britain, broke a long silence about his friendship with Mr. Epstein. The prince denied knowing about or seeing the sexual trafficking and exploitation of underage girls.
Battered N.F.L. star says he’s had enough 
Andrew Luck, who became an instant star for the Indianapolis Colts when he was selected as the No. 1 overall pick in the 2012 draft, surprised the football world over the weekend by retiring at 29, citing health concerns.
“It was,” our N.F.L. reporter writes, “one of the more vivid examples of the changing dynamics of a league striving to portray the game as safer than ever while its players increasingly weigh the consequences of continuing a career where the long-term physical issues only build as the seasons pile up.”
Mr. Luck, a quarterback, missed 26 games in his N.F.L. career because of severe injuries. 
Quotable: “It felt like a weight has lifted,” he said on Saturday. “Part of my journey going forward is to figure out how to get out of pain.”
If you have 15 minutes, this is worth it
How U.S. gun laws fuel a crisis abroad
Gun control can seem like a purely domestic issue, but American firearms have poured into neighboring countries and caused record violence, in part because of federal and state laws that make it difficult to track the weapons.
Above, the police conducting a raid in Jamaica, where more than 80 percent of homicides are committed with guns, most of them from the U.S. Drawing on court documents, case files, interviews and confidential data from both countries, The Times examined the trend, tracing a single gun to nine homicides.
Here’s what else is happening
Warning shot in Hong Kong: Riot police officers drew their pistols on Sunday and unleashed rounds of tear gas at protesters, who threw bricks and firebombs.
2020 races: Joe Walsh, the conservative radio show host and former Republican lawmaker from Illinois, said he would challenge President Trump for the party’s nomination. Separately, Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff in Arizona who built a reputation as an immigration hard-liner,            said he would run for his old office.
Targeting journalists: A network of conservative operatives allied with the White House has compiled potentially embarrassing social media posts and other public statements by employees at several news organizations, including The Times.
Moving a capital: President Joko Widodo proposed building a capital on the island of Borneo to replace Jakarta, a polluted city of 10 million.
Toxic algae: Blue-green blooms that can harm humans and pets have been found in lakes and ponds in three New York City parks.
Snapshot: Above, Althea Gibson at the national women’s tennis championships in 1958. A statue of Ms. Gibson, the first black player to be ranked No. 1 in the world, will be unveiled today at the U.S. Open. We’ll have live coverage of the tournament when play begins at 11 a.m. Eastern. Here are today’s matchups for            the women and            the men.
Metropolitan Diary: In this week’s column, a very chunky scarf and other tales of New York City.
What we’re reading: This quiz from CNN. Lynda Richardson, a travel editor, writes: “Here’s a fascinating quiz about the most effective — and often surprising — ways that individuals, policymakers and businesses can curb climate change. Even if you get just about everything wrong, you’ll learn a lot.”
Now, a break from the news
Cook: Chocolate pudding made with oat milk takes only 15 minutes.
Watch: “El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie,” a Netflix film based on the TV show, will expand on the story of Jesse Pinkman.
Go: Tom Hiddleston is making his Broadway debut as the bottled-up husband wearing a “mask of control” in Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal.” It’s at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater.
Read: Petina Gappah was inspired by William Faulkner, T.S. Eliot and Toni Morrison for “Out of Darkness, Shining Light,” a fictional account of the journey transporting the body of the explorer David Livingstone.
Smarter Living: The skies are getting bumpier because of climate change. But experts say that severe turbulence remains a very rare occurrence, and airlines try to choose routes to avoid it. Still, remain buckled up throughout your flight.
And we also look at the pros and cons of using technology to keep tabs on your home when you’re away.
And now for the Back Story on …
Territorial purchases 
Last week, Denmark’s prime minister dismissed President Trump’s interest in buying Greenland as “absurd.” The president didn’t it take kindly.
The U.S. has acquired a great deal of territory through monetary means, though most big purchases came long ago. The Louisiana Purchase from France in 1803 added about 828,000 square miles of land that eventually created all or part of 15 states. 
In 1867, Secretary of State William Seward negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia, which some Americans denounced as “Seward’s Folly.”
The U.S. bought land from Denmark, too.
During World War I, fears that Germany might secure the Danish Virgin Islands renewed the U.S.’s longstanding interest in them. The Danes had been trying to get rid of the Caribbean islands since the mid-1800s, because their plantations had collapsed after a slave revolt forced the abolition of slavery in the colony.
Denmark resisted a deal without provisions for the population, but agreed to sell after President Woodrow Wilson’s secretary of state implied that the U.S. might occupy the islands.
And in 1946, the U.S. offered the country $100 million to buy Greenland. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris
Thank you
Melina Delkic helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson and Eleanor Stanford wrote the break from the news. Will Dudding, an assistant in the Standards Department, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. 
P.S.
 We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about an early accusation of sexual assault against Jeffrey Epstein.
 Here’s today’s            Mini Crossword, and a clue: Bird whose extinction was caused by humans (four letters).            You can find all our puzzles here. 
 The Times’s  research and development team            shared its research on smart speakers on the Times Open site, which discusses how our digital products get made. 
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Your Monday Briefing
The New York Times 
August 26, 2019 Monday 06:00 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1510 words
Byline: Chris Stanford
Highlight: Trade War, Andrew Luck, U.S. Open: Here’s what you need to know.
Body


Good morning.
We’re covering the final day of the Group of 7 meeting in France, the surprise retirement of the N.F.L. quarterback Andrew Luck, and the discovery of toxic algae in New York City.
A positive note in the trade war
President Trump said today that the U.S. and China would soon restart talks and called President Xi Jinping a “great leader,” three days after branding him an “enemy” of the U.S. Mr. Trump’s remarks came in Biarritz, France, at the annual meeting of the Group of 7 industrialized democracies. Here are the latest updates.
Over the weekend, Mr. Trump asserted that he had the authority to order American companies out of China, but then said he was having “second thoughts” about new tariffs on Chinese goods. His aides later said that Mr. Trump regretted only that he had not raised tariffs faster.
News analysis: Determined not to anger Mr. Trump, the other Group of 7 leaders sought to register their differences in the most flattering of tones, our chief White House correspondent writes.
Another angle: At the annual conference of central bankers and economists in Jackson, Wyo., last week, policymakers closed ranks around the Federal Reserve chief, Jerome Powell, who has faced persistent criticism from Mr. Trump.
A $6 million drug claim
As ultraexpensive drugs — some costing millions of dollars for one patient — become more common, they’re prompting a debate over whether Americans will be priced out of lifesaving treatments.
Scientific advances have led to cures for illnesses that were once a death sentence. And with about 90 percent of all U.S. prescriptions filled with cheaper generic drugs, pharmaceutical companies are looking for profits in rare-disease treatments.
Why it matters: Some small businesses have considered ending employee health coverage after being hit with just one employee’s claim for an ultraexpensive treatment. Others have drastically cut coverage for drugs, and employers are considering excluding coverage for expensive treatments.
The Weekly: The latest episode of The Times’s TV show is about the life-changing drugs that few can afford. Read behind-the-scenes notes about the episode, which is available on FX and Hulu.
The sisters who accused Jeffrey Epstein
Other women have come forward with more serious claims of rape and child abuse against Mr. Epstein, but reports made 23 years ago by Maria and Annie Farmer are the earliest known allegations about his physical contact with girls and young women. 
The sisters spoke to The Times about their accusations, offering a look at how Mr. Epstein, who killed himself in prison this month, managed to avoid significant scrutiny for years.
The Daily: Today’s episode is about the sisters’ accusations.
Another angle: Prince Andrew, the son of Queen Elizabeth II of Britain, broke a long silence about his friendship with Mr. Epstein. The prince denied knowing about or seeing the sexual trafficking and exploitation of underage girls.
Battered N.F.L. star says he’s had enough 
Andrew Luck, who became an instant star for the Indianapolis Colts when he was selected as the No. 1 overall pick in the 2012 draft, surprised the football world over the weekend by retiring at 29, citing health concerns.
“It was,” our N.F.L. reporter writes, “one of the more vivid examples of the changing dynamics of a league striving to portray the game as safer than ever while its players increasingly weigh the consequences of continuing a career where the long-term physical issues only build as the seasons pile up.”
Mr. Luck, a quarterback, missed 26 games in his N.F.L. career because of severe injuries. 
Quotable: “It felt like a weight has lifted,” he said on Saturday. “Part of my journey going forward is to figure out how to get out of pain.”
If you have 15 minutes, this is worth it
How U.S. gun laws fuel a crisis abroad
Gun control can seem like a purely domestic issue, but American firearms have poured into neighboring countries and caused record violence, in part because of federal and state laws that make it difficult to track the weapons.
Above, the police conducting a raid in Jamaica, where more than 80 percent of homicides are committed with guns, most of them from the U.S. Drawing on court documents, case files, interviews and confidential data from both countries, The Times examined the trend, tracing a single gun to nine homicides.
Here’s what else is happening
Warning shot in Hong Kong: Riot police officers drew their pistols on Sunday and unleashed rounds of tear gas at protesters, who threw bricks and firebombs.
2020 races: Joe Walsh, the conservative radio show host and former Republican lawmaker from Illinois, said he would challenge President Trump for the party’s nomination. Separately, Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff in Arizona who built a reputation as an immigration hard-liner,            said he would run for his old office.
Targeting journalists: A network of conservative operatives allied with the White House has compiled potentially embarrassing social media posts and other public statements by employees at several news organizations, including The Times.
Moving a capital: President Joko Widodo of Indonesia proposed building a capital on the island of Borneo to replace Jakarta, a polluted city of 10 million.
Toxic algae: Blue-green blooms that can harm humans and pets have been found in lakes and ponds in three New York City parks.
Snapshot: Above, Althea Gibson at the national women’s tennis championships in 1958. A statue of Ms. Gibson, the first black player to be ranked No. 1 in the world, will be unveiled today at the U.S. Open. We’ll have live coverage of the tournament when play begins at 11 a.m. Eastern. Here are today’s matchups for            the women and            the men.
Metropolitan Diary: In this week’s column, a very chunky scarf and other tales of New York City.
What we’re reading: This quiz from CNN. Lynda Richardson, a travel editor, writes: “Here’s a fascinating quiz about the most effective — and often surprising — ways that individuals, policymakers and businesses can curb climate change. Even if you get just about everything wrong, you’ll learn a lot.”
Now, a break from the news
Cook: Chocolate pudding made with oat milk takes only 15 minutes.
Watch: “El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie,” a Netflix film based on the TV show, will expand on the story of Jesse Pinkman.
Go: Tom Hiddleston is making his Broadway debut as the bottled-up husband wearing a “mask of control” in Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal.” It’s at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater.
Read: Petina Gappah was inspired by William Faulkner, T.S. Eliot and Toni Morrison for “Out of Darkness, Shining Light,” a fictional account of the journey transporting the body of the explorer David Livingstone.
Smarter Living: The skies are getting bumpier because of climate change. But experts say that severe turbulence remains a very rare occurrence, and airlines try to choose routes to avoid it. Still, remain buckled up throughout your flight.
And we also look at the pros and cons of using technology to keep tabs on your home when you’re away.
And now for the Back Story on …
Territorial purchases 
Last week, Denmark’s prime minister dismissed President Trump’s interest in buying Greenland as “absurd.” The president didn’t it take kindly.
The U.S. has acquired a great deal of territory through monetary means, though most big purchases came long ago. The Louisiana Purchase from France in 1803 added about 828,000 square miles of land that eventually created all or part of 15 states. 
In 1867, Secretary of State William Seward negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia, which some Americans denounced as “Seward’s Folly.”
The U.S. bought land from Denmark, too.
During World War I, fears that Germany might secure the Danish Virgin Islands renewed the U.S.’s longstanding interest in them. The Danes had been trying to get rid of the Caribbean islands since the mid-1800s, because their plantations had collapsed after a slave revolt forced the abolition of slavery in the colony.
Denmark resisted a deal without provisions for the population, but agreed to sell after President Woodrow Wilson’s secretary of state implied that the U.S. might occupy the islands.
And in 1946, the U.S. offered the country $100 million to buy Greenland. 
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Chris
Thank you
Melina Delkic helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson and Eleanor Stanford wrote the break from the news. Will Dudding, an assistant in the Standards Department, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. 
P.S.
 We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about an early accusation of sexual assault against Jeffrey Epstein.
 Here’s today’s            Mini Crossword, and a clue: Bird whose extinction was caused by humans (four letters).            You can find all our puzzles here. 
 The Times’s research and development team            shared its research on smart speakers on the Times Open site, which discusses how our digital products get made. 
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Laundry Workers Are Fighting Back
The New York Times
August 25, 2019 Sunday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1
Length: 2456 words
Byline: By FABRICE ROBINET; Yaling Jian contributed reporting.
Body


One afternoon last February, in front of dozens of riled-up protesters and two police officers, a small, visibly distraught woman confronted her employer at Sunshine Shirt Laundry Center, a family-owned cleaner in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn.
In the back of the store, stacks of dirty shirts spilled from a few laundry carts alongside an ironing board, as clients entering the place were fighting their way through the crowd of protesters to drop off their laundry at the counter. 
  ''I've been working here for 15 years in the same misery,'' said Ricarda, 44, who insisted she be identified only by her first name because of her immigration status. A single mother of two from Mexico, Ricarda was being paid around $7 an hour -- about half the city's minimum wage for small businesses -- while working up to 72 hours a week without overtime benefits.
  Ricarda then aimed her complaints directly at her boss: ''When I went to the hospital, I still had to come to work''; ''I asked you to install ventilation, and it made you laugh''; ''Your brother shoves me and looks at me sideways.''
  As she spoke, two activists attempted to translate from Ricarda's native Spanish into English, then into Chinese for her employer, Huanxin Chen.
  And one more thing, she told him, after handing him a letter listing her demands: ''My name is not Richa. It's Ricarda!''
  To many immigrants in New York, laundries -- both owning and working in them -- can mean an opportunity for a better life. With little customer interaction, the business is appealing to those still learning English. And because having a washer/dryer is still considered a luxury here -- a recent search on StreetEasy showed that only a third of its listed properties featured units -- there is a strong demand in the city for wash-and-fold drop-off services.
  This has propelled the growth of some 4,000 licensed laundries in the city, most of them either coin-operated laundromats that also provide wash-and-fold services or dry cleaners that do the same, plus ironing, according to New York City's Department of Consumer and Worker Protection.
  Retail laundries offer steady, physical work that tends to attract immigrant workers who have no documentation. Many, according to academics and industry professionals, are Hispanic women, like Ricarda.
  For those same reasons and because New York laundromats are often profitable, said Brian Wallace, the president and chief executive of the Coin Laundry Association, the industry draws a great many immigrant entrepreneurs as well, a large portion of whom are Chinese, like Mr. Chen.
  ''I didn't speak good English, and it was hard for me to find a job,'' said Mr. Chen earlier this summer. He moved to New York with his family in 2009 and bought his store that same year after spotting it in a for-sale ad in a local Chinese-language daily.
  But tensions between laundry workers and their employers are becoming more visible as some of the city's lavanderas have taken very public steps to fight for their rights, leading demonstrations and filing lawsuits to claim tens of thousands in back wages.
  In this struggle, though, the wins can be bittersweet. Owners say they've had to cut employees' hours to meet their demands for minimum wage.
  Mr. Chen has denied the claims Ricarda made against him at the protest last winter, adding that false rumors about him and his family have since spread throughout Bay Ridge and Bensonhurst, where they live.
  ''They come to the store and give away fliers,'' he said of the protesters. ''They mess with us all the time.''
  OWNERS HAVE FOUND themselves on the defensive, as an advocacy group, the Laundry Workers Center, is spearheading a wave of organizing throughout New York City's laundromats, leading secret trainings and connecting the laundry employees to lawyers.
  Still, it's incredibly hard to organize workers who fear retaliation or, worse, being deported.
  ''They say: 'I don't have a choice. I have to survive, pay for my rent, I know they're stealing from me. But if I take action, I'll lose my work,''' Mahoma López, a co-director of the center, explained.
  Retail laundries, traditionally small and with only a few employees, have a long history of exploitation.
  According to Jenny Carson, a labor history professor at Ryerson University in Toronto, industrial laundries, often set up in garages and basements with no ventilation, started cropping up around New York City in the first half of the 20th century.
  Workers' arms and hands were burned from the use of chemicals. Often, they developed rheumatism, respiratory issues, heart conditions or muscle pain.
  By 1930, laundries were the largest industrial employer of black women in the country, many of whom came from the South.
  Dr. Carson traces the field to a long tradition of African-Americans washing clothes in private homes during slavery and the Jim Crow era. ''Laundry work, from its inception, has always been racialized labor associated with women of color,'' she said.
  Conditions have improved in industrial plants, and unions are largely credited for elevating these standards. Many companies outside the city used by hospitals and restaurants, like Unitex Healthcare Laundry Services and White Plains Linen, now offer guaranteed full-time work, as well as health and retirement benefits.
  But on the storefront level, workers are still struggling. Solidarity cannot be built because employees often work alone during their shifts. And according to Stephanie Luce, a professor of labor studies at the City University of New York, unions lack the resources to organize such a dispersed work force, one store at a time.
  ''It takes so much time and energy to form a union,'' said Dr. Luce. ''Most of the time, we don't see that work being put in such small places.'' The diversity of retail laundry workers, she added, also requires organizers to speak a range of languages.
  Perhaps what inhibits collective organizing the most, though, is the ruthless competition among laundromats, sometimes within the same block.
  There are so many of them in the city, if one started charging customers 30 percent more to pay for employees' benefits, it would go out of business, said Megan Chambers, a co-manager of the Laundry, Distribution and Food Service Joint Board, Workers United, S.E.I.U.
  ''It's a race to the bottom,'' she said.
  Also, if a union targets one laundry, its owner could easily avoid the fight by selling it or filing for bankruptcy. ''There's simply nothing to stop employers from closing up on workers, moving elsewhere and reopening under a different name,'' Ms. Chambers said.
  On the other hand, because they are in such high demand here, retail laundries tend to be profitable, which is why they remain attractive to newly arrived entrepreneurs.
  ''The more people, the more dirty clothes; that is an irrefutable law of physics,'' said Mr. Wallace, of the Coin Laundry Association.
  According to Mr. Wallace, profit margins in the field range between 20 and 25 percent, once the initial investment is paid off. It costs $200 per square foot on average to build and equip a new store, with the help of a wholesale distributor.
  ''After that, it's a pretty straightforward business,'' he said.
  DAVID YU AND HIS WIFE, Susan Guan, came from China to Brooklyn 20 years ago. Mr. Yu bought his first laundromat in 2005 in Greenpoint for $70,000, with the help of his parents and money he'd saved working in construction and restaurants here.
  ''The start-up costs are higher than a restaurant, but there is less competition and it's more stable,'' Mr. Yu said last month.
  He and his wife ran the small store of 40 machines themselves. They worked tirelessly until the wee hours, making around $3,000 a month at first.
  ''On Mother's Day, the children asked me, 'Where's mother?' I said, 'There's no mother, mother is at work,''' Mr. Yu recalled.
  Now Mr. Yu owns seven laundries around the city -- all named after his wife -- including a large 24-hour location in Flushing, Queens, whose 170 machines can return as much as $20,000 in gross monthly sales.
  While he complained that rising rents, competition and the increased minimum wage in New York are eroding his profits, Mr. Yu, who bought a house in Queens and has sent two of his children to college, has built a comfortable life here.
  These days, he said, he employs 25 people in total, most of them Hispanic women.
  Mr. Yu prides himself on paying his employees the legal minimum wage ($13.50 an hour for small businesses) and sick leave. (One worker at a Queens location confirmed this.)
  But he is aware of employees' rights violations at other laundries.
  ''These are usually mom-and-pop stores who are taking advantage of new immigrants,'' Mr. Yu said.
  Many of the laundry workers experiencing these violations are undocumented and isolated, and they are often hesitant about speaking up. They complain ''at a significantly lesser rate than workers in other low-wage industries,'' said James Rogers, the deputy commissioner for worker protection at the New York State Department of Labor.
  Mr. Rogers said it would possibly help if the department initiated more investigations of laundromats and dry cleaners, recalling how it did such a thing with nail salons. But a proactive stance like this, he added, would require the agency to partner with grass-roots groups who could help organize the workers.
  THIS IS WHERE the Laundry Workers Center, created in 2011, comes in. But it has taken the organization several years to mobilize such a fractured work force. Along the way, the nonprofit gained some experience with other low-wage industries like the restaurant business, which has a greater tradition of collective action.
  Its first big success was being part of a campaign at the original Hot & Crusty bakery and cafe in Manhattan, where the center helped workers form a union and obtain better working conditions.
  One of the Hot & Crusty workers who'd emerged as a spokesman of the movement was Mr. López. He became an organizer with the Laundry Workers Center, eventually getting involved in the laundromat conundrum.
  ''A restaurant worker knows what to do because there are a lot of examples of protests and word-of-mouth from worker to worker,'' Mr. López said. ''A laundry worker is not at this level.
  ''There's just no communication among them,'' he added. Even within the same laundromat, employees often don't see one another between shifts.
  A breakthrough came in 2016 when the nonprofit decided to conduct a survey, which was published last year. For two years, Laundry Workers Center members posed as consumers in about 100 randomly chosen laundromats around the city, observing and interviewing the workers.
  The survey found that one in five employees was paid below minimum wage, while 36 percent of them did not receive proper overtime compensation. Nearly a third surveyed claimed to have no sick or vacation days.
  The study also pointed to what Mr. Yu said: It is the small, family-owned laundromats with one or two employees that are disproportionately more responsible for work violations than bigger stores.
  Eventually, the center persuaded a group of laundry workers who participated in the survey to attend weekly training sessions, which would lead to protests and demonstrations.
  The first protest took place in June 2018 at TYS Laundromat, a family-owned business in East Harlem, making it, according to the center, the first organized laundromat in the city.
  ''They've started paying us minimum wage and we now have better working conditions,'' said Perla, one of the campaign's organizers, who requested that only her nickname be used because of her immigration status.
  Immediately after the protest, Perla's pay was increased from $9 to $12 an hour -- New York City's minimum wage in 2018 for small businesses. But then in November, her weekly hours were cut from 66 to 40, right below the overtime limit.
  ''We make more or less the same as before,'' she said.
  Her boss, Xiong Lin, who bought TYS in 2015 and has yet to get his initial investment back, said he couldn't afford to pay Perla overtime.
  ''If I'm Google, no problem, but not for a laundromat,'' Mr. Lin said. TYS, which competes with two other laundromats in a two-block radius, earns him a monthly net income of over $4,000.
  Mr. Lin, 31, came here as a teenager with his family from China. ''For most Chinese people here, it's either restaurants or laundromats,'' he said.
  Despite her hours being cut, Perla, who came here from Mexico 12 years ago, said her work situation has improved.
  ''My feet used to be swollen from standing 11 hours a day, six days a week without sitting,'' she said, adding that she couldn't take any breaks then and had to skip meals, which gave her chronic gastritis.
  These days, Perla is allowed a 30-minute pause for lunch. She also said that Mr. Lin now provides workers with gloves and masks for the use of bleach and to deal with the lint coming out of dryers. ''My throat used to burn at the end of my shift,'' she said.
  Mr. Lin argued that he has always complied with safety standards. He also denies any accusation of abusive treatment outside of not paying his workers fairly.
  Last November, Perla and another co-worker filed a lawsuit against TYS, seeking back pay for unpaid minimum wage and overtime. A settlement was reached this month: Mr. Lin has agreed to pay his two workers $150,000 in total and to keep employing them at least 40 hours a week.
  BACK AT SUNSHINE Shirt Laundry Center in Bay Ridge, Ricarda's hope for better work conditions was short-lived.
  Three weeks after she participated in the protest last February, her hours were cut.
  Similar to what had happened to Perla at TYS, Ricarda saw her pay increase from around $7 to $13.50 an hour, but with her decreased weekly hours, she was making $164 less than what she used to.
  Ricarda's financial situation became so dire that her older son, who was finishing high school, decided he would start working after graduation instead of going to college.
  Ricarda's lawyer, Lina Stillman, estimates that she is owed close to $200,000. After a failed mediation, Ricarda and a co-worker filed a complaint. The case is ongoing.
  Mr. Chen, 52, claims that he doesn't owe his employees any money and that he's always paid them fairly. And he contends that the bad publicity and weekly picketing in front of his store after the protest made his business decrease by 60 percent.
  ''I'm losing thousands of dollars every month,'' he said in June.
  That same month, Mr. Chen closed up Sunshine Shirt Laundry Center for good.
  ''Now, I need to find another job,'' he said.
  So does Ricarda.
  Additional reporting by Yaling Jiang.

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/23/nyregion/nyc-laundry-workers-unionizing.html

Graphic

 
PHOTOS: A woman named Ricarda, right, and a co-worker confronted their employer, Huanxin Chen, left, during a protest over wages and working conditions at Sunshine Shirt Laundry Center in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, last February. (MB1)
Workers at Sunshine Shirt Laundry Center in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and their allies protested in February for better wages and working conditions. In June, the owner closed the laundry. (MB6)
 David Yu, who moved from China to Brooklyn 20 years ago, now owns seven laundries. He pays his employees at least the legal minimum wage and offers sick leave, but he knows that other laundries often don't. ''These are usually mom-and-pop stores who are taking advantage of new immigrants,'' Mr. Yu said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK ABRAMSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7)       

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document


Trump Revives the Jewish Left
The New York Times
August 25, 2019 Sunday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 2
Length: 1196 words
Byline: By MICHELLE GOLDBERG
Body


On Aug. 11, more than 1,000 people marked Tisha B'Av, the saddest day in the Jewish calendar, by occupying an Amazon Books store in Manhattan, protesting the technology behemoth's technical support for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Sitting on the floor, they read harrowing accounts of people in immigration detention and recited the Kaddish, the traditional Jewish prayer of mourning. One of their signs said, ''Never again means never again.''
According to organizers, 44 people, including 12 rabbis and a member of New York's City Council, were arrested. It was one of over 50 Jewish-organized demonstrations against ICE held across the country that day. 
  A few days later, a corrections officer drove a truck into a row of Jewish protesters who were blocking the entrance to a private prison in Rhode Island where migrants are being detained. Two of the protesters were hospitalized. That demonstration was one of at least 38 organized this summer by Never Again Action, a decentralized group formed two months ago to engage in nonviolent direct action against immigrant detention.
  Donald Trump might have thought he was going to lure Jewish voters to the Republican Party with his lock-step alliance with the Israeli right. Instead, by attempting to use American Jews as mascots for an administration that fills most of them with horror, he has spurred a renaissance on the Jewish left.
  New progressive Jewish groups are forming. Older ones, like New York's Jews for Racial and Economic Justice, one of the forces behind the Amazon action, are growing; once-sleepy organizing meetings have become standing room only. Jewish Currents, a left-wing Jewish publication founded almost 75 years ago, was reborn last year with a new cadre of writers and editors who speak to the millennial socialist zeitgeist.
  [Listen to ''The Argument'' podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]
  Obviously, American Jews have long leaned liberal, and have always been overrepresented in progressive movements. But there's a difference between leftists who happen to be Jewish and explicitly Jewish left-wing activism. ''People who may not have been that close to Jewishness, they feel suddenly like it's very important to express who they are as Jews in the context of their activism and in the context of their collective memory,'' said Arielle Angel, the editor of Jewish Currents.
  Alyssa Rubin, a 25-year-old organizer with Never Again Action, told me that in college, she had little interest in Jewish communal life, much of which seemed to revolve around support for Israel. But in the months leading up to the 2016 election, as Trump spouted rhetoric that smacked of fascism and white nationalists grew giddy at their new relevance, ''I had never thought about my Judaism more,'' she said. For the first time, anti-Semitism seemed an immediate, urgent threat.
  For Jews on the left, fear has been magnified by insult as Trump, the man who helped unleash a new wave of anti-Semitism, posed as the Jews' savior because of his devotion to the Israeli right.
  ''It's infuriating and intolerable,'' said Sophie Ellman-Golan, 27, the former director of communications and digital outreach at the Women's March organization, who is now working on a project to mobilize Jews against white nationalism. Because the right purports to defend Jews even as it pursues policies that most Jews abhor, she argued, ''it's imperative that we loudly speak for ourselves because if we don't the loudest voices that claim to speak on behalf of Jews will be right-wing evangelical Christians.''
  There are, of course, plenty of established Jewish groups that make it their mission to speak for the community. But it's hard to overstate the degree to which left-wing Jews feel alienated from and betrayed by the Jewish establishment, which often seems more concerned with left-wing anti-Zionism and rhetorical overkill than with right-wing white nationalism.
  Never Again Action was born in reaction to the perceived failures of mainstream Jewish organizations to stand up to Trump. In June, after Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez referred to migrant detention camps as ''concentration camps,'' establishment Jewish outfits like the Jewish Community Relations Council rushed to condemn her. Rubin was incredulous. A militantly xenophobic government is building internment camps for members of ethnic out-groups, and Jewish leaders worried that critics of this project were disrespecting the memory of the Holocaust?
  ''That compounded the outrage that a lot of Jews were feeling, that a mainstream Jewish institution would say something that just felt so out of touch,'' she said. ''That in part led us to really want to not just say in words, but actually take action to show how the Jewish community actually feels about this moment.''
  People involved in the new Jewish left recognize that left-wing anti-Semitism exists. But they generally don't believe it's a threat on par with right-wing Jew hatred.
  ''No political party or movement is free of anti-Semitism,'' said Ellman-Golan, who had to deal with the fallout from anti-Semitism at the Women's March. But, she said, ''only one political party is quite literally inciting white nationalists to shoot up our synagogues, drive cars into our peaceful protests, mail bombs to members of our community, burn black churches and mosques, and open fire on Latinx people.''
  The Jewish left rejects the idea that anti-Zionism is equivalent to anti-Semitism, but even more than that, it rejects the idea that Israel is the guarantor of Jewish safety or the lodestar of Jewish identity. A central value of Jews for Racial and Economic Justice, as well as for much of left-wing Jewish culture more broadly, is ''doikayt,'' a Yiddish term that means ''hereness.''
  ''Where we are is our home. This is what we fight for. This is where we seek kinship,'' said Audrey Sasson, JFREJ's executive director. The first post-relaunch issue of Jewish Currents featured an essay by the publisher, Jacob Plitman, called ''On an Emerging Diasporism,'' which likewise celebrated the value of ''hereness.''
  For those primarily concerned about Jewish life in the diaspora, Israel, which has courted anti-Semitic nationalist leaders in Europe, isn't really an ally, much less an ideal. And Trump, who always speaks of American Jews as if they belong there, is a grotesque enemy. He tells Jews committed to life in America that they owe loyalty to Israel, which he sometimes calls, when speaking to American Jews, ''your country.'' He says this, and expects Jews to react with gratitude.
  Instead, many are reacting with a redoubled commitment to multiracial democracy and solidarity. Jews have been taking to the streets because no amount of support for a foreign country can redeem what he's doing to this one.
  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. 

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/24/opinion/sunday/trump-jews.html

Graphic

 
PHOTO: Jewish groups protesting immigrant detention policies in Los Angeles this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK RALSTON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)       

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document


Valley of the Dollars
The New York Times
August 25, 2019 Sunday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12; NONFICTION
Length: 1602 words
Byline: By STEPHEN MIHM
Stephen Mihm is a professor at the University of Georgia. He is working on a history of standards and standardization in American life.
Body


THE CODESilicon Valley and the Remaking of AmericaBy Margaret O'Mara
By the early 1970s, Don Hoefler, a writer for Electronic News, was spending after-hours at his ''field office'' -- a faux-Western tavern known as Walker's Wagon Wheel, in Mountain View, Calif. In a town with few nightspots, this was the bar of choice for engineers from the growing number of electronic and semiconductor chip firms clustered nearby. 
  Hoefler had a knack for slogans, having worked as a corporate publicist. In a piece published in 1971, he christened the region -- better known for its prune orchards, bland buildings and cookie-cutter subdivisions -- ''Silicon Valley.'' The name stuck, Hoefler became a legend and the region became a metonym for the entire tech sector. Today its five largest companies have a market valuation greater than the economy of the United Kingdom.
  How an otherwise unexceptional swath of suburbia came to rule the world is the central question animating ''The Code,'' Margaret O'Mara's accessible yet sophisticated chronicle of Silicon Valley. An academic historian blessed with a journalist's prose, O'Mara focuses less on the actual technology than on the people and policies that ensured its success.
  She digs deep into the region's past, highlighting the critical role of Stanford University. In the immediate postwar era, Fred Terman, an electrical engineer who became Stanford's provost, remade the school in his own image. He elevated science and engineering disciplines, enabling the university to capture federal defense dollars that helped to fuel the Cold War.
  Terman also built one of the first academic research parks, leveraging Stanford's extensive real-estate holdings in the Santa Clara Valley. Among the businesses he persuaded to move to the area were Hewlett-Packard and a company owned by William Shockley, the co-inventor of the transistor.
  Shockley turned out to be a boss from hell, and, in a legendary rupture, a handful of his most talented employees -- the ''Traitorous Eight'' -- parted ways from him and founded Fairchild Semiconductor. Fairchild became the Valley's ur-corporation: Its founders subsequently launched many more storied firms, from the chip maker Intel to the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins.
  O'Mara argues persuasively that Fairchild ''established a blueprint that thousands followed in the decades to come: Find outside investors willing to put in capital, give employees stock ownership, disrupt existing markets and create new ones.'' But she makes clear that this formula wasn't just a matter of free markets working their magic; it took a whole lot of Defense Department dollars to transform the region. Conveniently, the Soviets launched Sputnik three days after Fairchild was incorporated, inaugurating a torrent of money into the tech sector that only increased with the space race.
  Something similar happened again in the 1980s, when Ronald Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative and Darpa's Strategic Computing Initiative -- aimed at threats posed by the Soviet Union and Japan, respectively -- funneled even more resources into the region's companies. Defense money, O'Mara observes, ''remained the big-government engine hidden under the hood of the Valley's shiny new entrepreneurial sports car, flying largely under the radar screen of the saturation media coverage of hackers and capitalists.''
  But it was how these defense dollars got distributed -- via Stanford and a growing number of subcontractors in the region -- that mattered as much, if not more. O'Mara argues that the decentralized, privatized system of doling out public contracts fostered entrepreneurship. So, too, did Congress, which passed the Small Business Investment Act in 1958, offering generous tax breaks to the kinds of start-ups proliferating in the shadow of Stanford.
  These same factors prevailed at other aspiring tech hubs, notably Route 128 outside Boston, which housed several iconic firms, including Wang and Polaroid. Yet California eventually bested Route 128, and not just because the state had a clear edge when it came to winter weather.
  The sources of its success, O'Mara contends, had to do with a host of regulations and legal decisions that governed how firms in the Valley did business. Foremost among these was California's longstanding prohibition on noncompete clauses. This made it easy for employees to job-hop and share news of the latest innovations without fear of reprisal or recrimination. The turnover was staggering at Valley start-ups compared with established corporations such as I.B.M. on the other side of the country. But the creativity unleashed in the process left other regions far behind.
  No less important was the passage of the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1965, which unexpectedly led to an influx of newcomers, many of them skilled in the technical fields that are Silicon Valley's bread and butter. Between 1995 and 2005, more than half the founders of companies in the Valley were born outside the United States.
  But this was a later development. At first, Silicon Valley was the province of white guys in white shirts and crew cuts working for defense contractors and chip makers. They created what O'Mara memorably describes as a ''profanity-laced, chain-smoking, hard-drinking hybrid of locker room, Marine barracks and scientific lab.'' These men happily voted Republican, and had little interest in California's counterculture, much less its increasingly visible feminist movement. As O'Mara notes, Silicon Valley's gender imbalance dates back to a time when ''girls and electronics didn't mix.''
  This is one of O'Mara's strongest narrative threads: the casual misogyny that has defined Silicon Valley from past to present. She manages to bring the few women who did succeed to the forefront, most notably the programmer and entrepreneur Ann Hardy, who battled systemic sexism even as she wrote the code for many of the first computer time-sharing and networking applications built by the company known as Tymshare.
  Men otherwise rule O'Mara's book, even if, as the 1970s arrived, they increasingly came from the ranks of the phone phreaks and ''longhairs.'' They included Nolan Bushnell, the charismatic founder of Atari, whose band of merry nerd-bros smoked weed and made game controls shaped like breasts; the ''Steves'' -- Wozniak and Jobs -- whom one early capitalist, appalled by their lack of hygiene, described as ''renegades from the human race''; and Jim Warren, the math professor and impresario who founded the West Coast Computer Faire in 1977 and published the influential, if offbeat, publication known as ''Dr. Dobb's Journal of Computer Calisthenics and Orthodontia.''
  O'Mara toggles deftly between character studies and the larger regulatory and political milieu. She traces how the famously apolitical titans of tech became increasingly savvy to the ways of Sacramento and Washington. In the late 1970s, they secured cuts to the capital gains tax and changes to arcane regulations governing how easily pension funds could place money with venture capitalists. The result was a flood of new investment that revived Silicon Valley's fortunes.
  In fact, the closest Silicon Valley came to annihilation wasn't at the hands of politicians and regulators, but rather at those of Bill Gates. O'Mara relates the epic battle between Microsoft and everyone else with admirable economy, incorporating the rise of I.B.M. clones, Netscape's ignominious end and other low points in the Valley's history. In a nice twist, it was Sergey Brin and Larry Page, working in the newly endowed William H. Gates Computer Science Building at Stanford, who did more than anyone else to ''shove Microsoft's Sun King off his software throne.'' Their iconic firm, Google, destroyed Microsoft's Internet Explorer and began challenging Microsoft's core suite of office products.
  By this time, ''Silicon Valley'' had become shorthand for an entire industry that was concentrated in Santa Clara County but had outposts in cities like Seattle, where Amazon had set up shop. The ''continuing irony,'' O'Mara writes, lay in the fact that ''some of those most enriched by the new-style military-industrial complex were also some of the tech industry's most outspoken critics of big government.''
  The poster boy of this contradiction is the libertarian and PayPal founder Peter Thiel, who has since bankrolled another Silicon Valley data-mining firm, Palantir, named after the ''seeing stones'' in ''The Lord of the Rings.'' Palantir's top clients? The C.I.A. and firms working for the national security state.
  Can Silicon Valley -- a place and state of mind -- maintain its supremacy in the coming years? China is pumping staggering amounts of money into its own tech sector, while European regulators are moving aggressively to curb the power of the biggest tech companies. Here at home, the Department of Justice has signaled that it may initiate antitrust proceedings against them, while Republicans seem determined to restrict immigration to the United States, effectively cutting off the lifeblood of talent that has sustained the tech sector in recent years. If Silicon Valley wants to preserve its dominant status, it's time to remember the words of Andy Grove, the iconoclastic C.E.O. of Intel: ''Only the paranoid survive.''
  Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.
  THE CODE Silicon Valley and the Remaking of America By Margaret O'Mara 496 pp. Penguin Press. $30.        

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/09/books/review/the-code-margaret-omara.html

Graphic

 
PHOTO: Steve Jobs, John Sculley (the C.E.O. of Apple) and Steve Wozniak in 1984. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAL VEDER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)       

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document


Employers Are Wringing Their Hands
The New York Times
August 23, 2019 Friday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1
Length: 1354 words
Byline: By DAVID YAFFE-BELLANY
Body


Facing one of the most severe labor shortages in decades, restaurants across the country are trying virtually everything to recruit cooks and dishwashers, from offering quarterly bonuses to providing training programs for ex-convicts.
Now, the specter of increased immigration enforcement is putting many of those restaurants in a more fraught situation: let go of trusted employees or risk criminal prosecution. 
  The problems began in March and April, when the Social Security Administration sent letters to hundreds of thousands of business owners, notifying them that the names of some employees did not match the Social Security numbers on their tax forms.
  These ''no-match letters'' sowed fear and confusion in workplaces that depend on immigrant employees, like farms, factories and construction sites. But few businesses have felt the impact of the government notices more than restaurants, which have long relied on undocumented labor and struggled with high turnover.
  ''If you ask any restaurant now what's keeping them up at night, it's this,'' said Carolyn Richmond, an employment lawyer in New York. ''We do have a lot more diverse work force than most industries, and unfortunately many of them may be undocumented.''
  Over the last few months, the restaurant owners who received no-match letters have divided into two general camps. Some risk-averse employers are planning to fire their undocumented workers or adopt more stringent hiring protocols, like using the federal E-Verify program to check new hires' documents. Others have done practically nothing, convinced that they have no choice but to ignore the notices because they can ill afford to lose employees in a tight labor market.
  After the no-match letters arrived, many restaurant owners were advised by their lawyers to give affected employees a few months to correct the problems in the government's records.
  For some restaurants, the end of that window has already arrived or is fast approaching. That could mean a wave of firings is in store, once it becomes clear that certain employees lack legal status. But with restaurants already struggling to hire enough workers, some owners are likely to ignore the letters, putting themselves at risk of legal penalties.
  ''We've definitely seen every part of the spectrum, from wanting to be compliant to 'we're just going to stick our heads in the sand,''' said Becki Young, a lawyer in Maryland who has advised restaurants across the country on how to respond to the no-match letters. ''Some of our clients will have some really hard decisions to make.''
  A no-match letter from the Social Security Administration is not the same as an immigration audit, which would be conducted by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. And some of the Social Security discrepancies involve minor clerical issues, like a missing digit or a spelling mistake in an employee's name.
  ''Social Security is not a law enforcement agency,'' said Mark Hinkle, the agency's acting press secretary. ''Our role is limited in scope to trying to ensure we credit each employee with his or her earnings.''
  But the letters effectively require business owners to check whether the employees identified are properly documented. And in a potential ICE audit, employers who fail to investigate a no-match letter -- or to act on what they find -- could be deemed to have ''constructive knowledge'' of an employee's immigration status, exposing them to hefty fines and possible criminal charges.
  The last time the federal government sent a large number of no-match letters was more than a decade ago, when President George W. Bush was in office. Amid a broader crackdown on illegal immigration, the Trump administration has revived the process, at the same time that ICE has upped the frequency of its audits. In fiscal 2018, the agency initiated nearly 6,000 I-9 audits, a more than 400 percent increase from the previous year. And the ICE raids in Mississippi this month, which swept up hundreds of undocumented employees at agricultural plants, underscored the specter of increased enforcement across the food industry.
  The experiences of two restaurant owners in New York City show how the pressures that face the industry have elicited strikingly divergent responses. The owners spoke on condition of anonymity because they did not want to attract attention from ICE.
  One of them, who owns a restaurant group with locations in New York and Miami, said he had consulted with five different law firms about how to respond to the no-match letters, which he said named 350 of his employees, or about a quarter of his staff. At the advice of several of those lawyers, he said, he is considering firing employees who cannot produce documentation. He has also hired a company to inspect the I-9 forms of all future employees.
  Over the past few months, a number of his employees have left of their own accord, he said, concerned that the no-match letters could portend a federal immigration raid.
  The second owner, whose restaurant is in Manhattan, said she received a no-match letter alerting her to issues with almost every member of her kitchen staff, many of whom she had suspected were in the country illegally. Ultimately, she said, she decided not to tell any of her employees about the letter because losing the workers would doom the establishment.
  With unemployment at just 3.7 percent, its lowest level in many years, restaurants are hardly the only businesses struggling to recruit low-wage workers. But for them the labor shortage has become especially serious: Restaurants have long been the economy's largest employer of teenagers, whose participation in the work force has declined in recent years; and Wall Street investment has led to a glut of restaurant openings, oversaturating the market.
  Many of the restaurant owners wringing their hands over the no-match letters run local eateries or small to midsize restaurant groups. The larger fast-food chains often require that their stores or franchisees use E-Verify, making them less likely to violate to immigration law.
  Chipotle adopted the verification system after an immigration probe in 2011 cut its work force in Minnesota in half. And over the last year, Dunkin' has taken an especially hard line, suing franchisees that failed to use E-Verify.
  ''You might start seeing more franchisers perhaps tightening up their employment verification requirements,'' said Vikrant Advani, a labor expert at Rutgers University's business school. ''I see that possibly becoming a trend. Franchisers have to be careful.''
  At the moment, 22 states mandate that at least some businesses use E-Verify. It's unclear, however, how many restaurants have adopted the system. United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that oversees E-Verify, records the number of ''food services and drinking places'' that use it, but the agency does not keep track of restaurants specifically.
  In the last three years, the number of food-and-drink locations using E-Verify has increased steadily, by about 20,000 to 25,000 a year; a total of 218,375 such locations have signed up over the history of the program, according to government data. And even in some states that do not require it, E-Verify is growing more popular. In Iowa, the local chapter of the National Restaurant Association has not heard any reports of no-match letters, possibly because so many restaurants in the state already use E-Verify, according to Jessica Dunker, the chapter's president.
  In New York, many small, independent restaurants have been reluctant to adopt the system because it can slow down the hiring process, putting employers at a competitive disadvantage. But now, some owners are starting to reconsider, as they wrestle with what to do about the no-match letters.
  ''There's a lot of liability for employers, so it puts them in a very difficult position to make very difficult choices,'' said Andrew Rigie, the executive director of the city's hospitality alliance. ''Immigrants are the backbone of the city's restaurant industry. There's an incredible amount of anxiety.''

Graphic

 
PHOTO: A help-wanted sign in Miami. With restaurants already struggling to hire workers, some owners are likely to ignore ''no-match letters'' from the government. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILFREDO LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY BETH HOECKEL)       

Load-Date: August 23, 2019


End of Document


Hiring Is Very Hard for Restaurants These Days. Now They May Have to Fire.
The New York Times 
August 23, 2019 Friday 15:28 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS
Length: 1409 words
Byline: David Yaffe-Bellany
Highlight: Amid a severe labor shortage and a renewed U.S. crackdown on undocumented immigrants, owners are facing a choice: fire workers or risk prosecution.
Body


Amid a severe labor shortage and a renewed U.S. crackdown on undocumented immigrants, owners are facing a choice: fire workers or risk prosecution.
Facing one of the most severe labor shortages in decades, restaurants across the country are trying virtually everything to recruit cooks and dishwashers, from offering            quarterly bonuses to providing            training programs for ex-convicts.
Now, the specter of increased immigration enforcement is putting many of those restaurants in a more fraught situation: let go of trusted employees or risk criminal prosecution.
The problems began in March and April, when the Social Security Administration sent letters to hundreds of thousands of business owners, notifying them that the names of some employees did not match the Social Security numbers on their tax forms.
These “no-match letters” sowed fear and confusion in workplaces that depend on immigrant employees, like farms, factories and construction sites. But few businesses have felt the impact of the government notices more than restaurants, which have long relied on undocumented labor and struggled with high turnover.
“If you ask any restaurant now what’s keeping them up at night, it’s this,” said Carolyn Richmond, an employment lawyer in New York. “We do have a lot more diverse work force than most industries, and unfortunately many of them may be undocumented.”
Over the last few months, the restaurant owners who received no-match letters have divided into two general camps. Some risk-averse employers are planning to fire their undocumented workers or adopt more stringent hiring protocols, like using the federal E-Verify program to check new hires’ documents. Others have done practically nothing, convinced that they have no choice but to ignore the notices because they can ill afford to lose employees in a tight labor market. 
After the no-match letters arrived, many restaurant owners were advised by their lawyers to give affected employees a few months to correct the problems in the government’s records.
For some restaurants, the end of that window has already arrived or is fast approaching. That could mean a wave of firings is in store, once it becomes clear that certain employees lack legal status. But with restaurants already struggling to hire enough workers, some owners are likely to ignore the letters, putting themselves at risk of legal penalties.
“We’ve definitely seen every part of the spectrum, from wanting to be compliant to ‘we’re just going to stick our heads in the sand,’” said Becki Young, a lawyer in Maryland who has advised restaurants across the country on how to respond to the no-match letters. “Some of our clients will have some really hard decisions to make.”
A no-match letter from the Social Security Administration is not the same as an immigration audit, which would be conducted by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. And some of the Social Security discrepancies involve minor clerical issues, like a missing digit or a spelling mistake in an employee’s name.
“Social Security is not a law enforcement agency,” said Mark Hinkle, the agency’s acting press secretary. “Our role is limited in scope to trying to ensure we credit each employee with his or her earnings.”
But the letters effectively require business owners to check whether the employees identified are properly documented. And in a potential ICE audit, employers who fail to investigate a no-match letter — or to act on what they find — could be deemed to have “constructive knowledge” of an employee’s immigration status, exposing them to hefty fines and possible criminal charges.
The last time the federal government sent a large number of no-match letters was more than a decade ago, when President George W. Bush was in office. Amid a broader crackdown on illegal immigration, the Trump administration has revived the process, at the same time that ICE has upped the frequency of its audits. In fiscal 2018, the agency initiated nearly 6,000 I-9 audits, a more than 400 percent increase from the previous year. And the ICE raids in Mississippi this month, which swept up hundreds of undocumented employees at agricultural plants, underscored the specter of increased enforcement across the food industry. 
The experiences of two restaurant owners in New York City show how the pressures that face the industry have elicited strikingly divergent responses. The owners spoke on condition of anonymity because they did not want to attract attention from ICE.
One of them, who owns a restaurant group with locations in New York and Miami, said he had consulted with five different law firms about how to respond to the no-match letters, which he said named 350 of his employees, or about a quarter of his staff. At the advice of several of those lawyers, he said, he is considering firing employees who cannot produce documentation. He has also hired a company to inspect the I-9 forms of all future employees.
Over the past few months, a number of his employees have left of their own accord, he said, concerned that the no-match letters could portend a federal immigration raid.
The second owner, whose restaurant is in Manhattan, said she received a no-match letter alerting her to issues with almost every member of her kitchen staff, many of whom she had suspected were in the country illegally. Ultimately, she said, she decided not to tell any of her employees about the letter because losing the workers would doom the establishment.
With unemployment at just 3.7 percent, its lowest level in many years, restaurants are hardly the only businesses struggling to recruit low-wage workers. But  for them the labor shortage has become especially serious: Restaurants have long been the economy’s largest employer of teenagers, whose participation in the work force has declined in recent years; and            Wall Street investment has led to a glut of restaurant openings, oversaturating the market.
Many of the restaurant owners wringing their hands over the no-match letters run local eateries or small to midsize restaurant groups. The larger fast-food chains often require that their stores or franchisees use E-Verify, making them less likely to violate immigration law. 
Chipotle adopted the verification system after an immigration probe in 2011 cut its work force in Minnesota in half. And over the last year, Dunkin’ has taken an especially hard line,            suing franchisees that failed to use E-Verify. 
“You might start seeing more franchisers perhaps tightening up their employment verification requirements,” said Vikrant Advani, a labor expert at Rutgers University’s business school. “I see that possibly becoming a trend. Franchisers have to be careful.”
At the moment, 22 states mandate that at least some businesses use E-Verify. It’s unclear, however, how many restaurants have adopted the system. United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that oversees E-Verify, records the number of “food services and drinking places” that use it, but the agency does not keep track of restaurants specifically.
In the last three years, the number of food-and-drink locations using E-Verify has increased steadily, by about 20,000 to 25,000 a year; a total of 218,375 such locations have signed up over the history of the program, according to government data. And even in some states that do not require it, E-Verify is growing more popular. In Iowa, the local chapter of the National Restaurant Association has not heard any reports of no-match letters, possibly because so many restaurants in the state already use E-Verify, according to Jessica Dunker, the chapter’s president.
In New York, many small, independent restaurants have been reluctant to adopt the system because it can slow down the hiring process, putting employers at a competitive disadvantage. But now, some owners are starting to reconsider, as they wrestle with what to do about the no-match letters.
“There’s a lot of liability for employers, so it puts them in a very difficult position to make very difficult choices,” said Andrew Rigie, the executive director of the city’s hospitality alliance. “Immigrants are the backbone of the city’s restaurant industry. There’s an incredible amount of anxiety.”
PHOTO: A help-wanted sign in Miami. With restaurants already struggling to hire workers, some owners are likely to ignore “no-match letters” from the government. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILFREDO LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


In Aftermath of El Paso Attack, a Reckoning on Texas’s Divisive Political Rhetoric
The New York Times 
August 23, 2019 Friday 10:36 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: US
Length: 1749 words
Byline: Manny Fernandez and David Montgomery
Highlight: A letter sent out by Gov. Greg Abbott before the El Paso shooting asking donors to “defend Texas” from illegal immigration has angered Democrats.
Body


HOUSTON — Typically, a campaign plea from a Texas governor calling for fellow Republicans to “defend Texas” from illegal immigration and “take matters into our own hands” would be met with a collective yawn. Such appeals have been commonplace in Republican-controlled Texas, where taking a hard line on immigration is a given.
But after a mass shooting in El Paso earlier this month, these are anything but typical times in Texas politics.
A fund-raising letter sent out by Gov. Greg Abbott’s campaign the day before the shooting at an El Paso Walmart has angered Democrats and illustrated the lingering political fallout from the deadliest anti-Latino attack in modern American history.
On Aug. 3, a white, 21-year-old gunman opened fire at the Walmart in the border city of El Paso, killing 22 people in a hate-filled attack targeting what he called “the Hispanic community.” In the campaign letter dated Aug. 2, Mr. Abbott sought to rally potential donors by writing, “If we’re going to defend Texas, we’ll need to take matters into our own hands.” The word “defend” was written in bold, underlined and in all caps.
The letter described the large number of undocumented immigrants crossing the border into Texas, called out both parties for refusing to work with President Trump to secure the border and warned that liberals were trying to transform Texas through illegal immigration and “turn Texas blue.”
“Doing nothing will only lead to disaster for Texas, both economically and politically,” the letter read.
Leaders of the Texas Democratic Party called the letter racist, anti-Latino and anti-immigrant and said it was filled with the kind of rhetoric that fueled the hatred of the El Paso gunman. The Dallas-area man charged in the attack, Patrick Crusius, had posted an online anti-Latino manifesto minutes before the shooting, declaring that he was acting in response to “the Hispanic invasion of Texas” and fears that the Hispanic population in Texas would “make us a Democrat stronghold.”
The El Paso shooting has exposed long-simmering tensions between the state’s white Republican leadership and the Hispanic lawmakers and activists who have accused them for years of racist power plays. For years, the largely white Texas Republican leadership has worried that the increasing Hispanic population in the state will loosen their grip on power, and has described the problems of illegal immigration at the Texas border in alarmist terms.
And it has been more than talk: Texas Republicans have pushed to ban sanctuary cities as part of a so-called            show-me-your-papers law, passed in 2017, that Democrats called anti-Latino. The Republican leadership also launched a much-debated and flawed effort to            purge noncitizens from the voter rolls. Numerous voters with Hispanic surnames who are citizens were caught up in the purge.
But Texas has a complicated political geography that is not always defined by race or ethnicity. While many of the state’s most prominent Latino politicians are Democrats, Republicans in state leadership have long enjoyed a measure of support from Latinos, who have often voted conservative on issues such as abortion and even border security.
Mr. Abbott, a former Texas attorney general who is in a wheelchair after being paralyzed below the waist in a 1984 accident, has enjoyed widespread support among Hispanic Texans, particularly those who live in the Rio Grande Valley region at the border. Last year, Mr. Abbott won re-election and defeated his Democratic opponent, Lupe Valdez, the Latina former sheriff of Dallas County, by more than 1 million votes. Mr. Abbott won about 44 percent of the Hispanic vote.
His wife is the granddaughter of Mexican immigrants and the state’s first Hispanic first lady. The governor’s chief of staff, Luis Saenz, is the first Latino chief of staff to run the governor’s office in the history of the state.
At the same time, Mr. Abbott has backed, and defended in court, a series of voting, redistricting and anti-sanctuary-cities laws that Latino leaders have called anti-Hispanic. Since 2011, federal judges have found in a series of court rulings that the Republican-dominated Texas Legislature intentionally discriminated against Hispanics and blacks.
The issues raised by the El Paso attack have prompted almost everyone to re-examine traditional politics — and the political mailer that went out from the governor has been especially contentious.
“This is not a game,” Manny Garcia, the executive director of the Texas Democratic Party, said in a statement about the governor’s campaign mailer. “It’s long past time for Republicans to eradicate white supremacist language from their discourse — people are dying.”
State Representative Ramon Romero Jr., a Democrat who in 2014 became the first Latino elected to the Texas Legislature from Fort Worth’s majority-white Tarrant County, said the anti-immigrant rhetoric in the state has been too divisive for too long.
“I think if the shooter’s manifesto would not have come out, it wouldn’t have been so glaringly obvious,” Mr. Romero said. “I’ve said for a long time that I felt this was a dangerous conversation that was going to eventually rear its ugly head. Any criticism that the governor has received has been absolutely warranted, and he should be the first one to say, ‘I made a mistake.’”
A spokesman for Mr. Abbott declined to comment.
If there was any Republican criticism of the governor’s mailer, it was muted. Some Republicans expressed outrage that Democrats were branding the letter as racist. They said the letter was not anti-immigrant but anti-illegal immigration, and that it was wrong for the Texas Democratic Party to imply that opposing illegal immigration was racist.
Matt Mackowiak, a Republican consultant who is the chairman of the Travis County Republican Party in Austin, said he found nothing offensive about the governor’s letter. “Texas has invested billions of dollars and deployed thousands of personnel to the southern border to do a job that the federal government’s not willing to do,” Mr. Mackiowiak said. “I read the mailer. I didn’t see anything in there that was objectionable.”
The El Paso gunman echoed talking points used in the past both by Mr. Trump and by Texas Republicans who have called for stronger measures against illegal immigration.
The lieutenant governor, Dan Patrick, was quoted in The Texas Observer in 2006, when he was running for a State Senate seat, describing undocumented immigrants as invaders and saying that the main “problem we are facing is the silent invasion of the border. We are being overrun. It is imperiling our safety.”
The notion that red Texas must be fiercely defended from becoming more and more blue has become a common theme at Texas Republican events. At a Houston rally for Mr. Trump last year, Mr. Patrick invoked the revered defenders of the Alamo in urging the crowd to defeat Beto O’Rourke, a former Democratic congressman from El Paso, in his bid for the Senate.
“He does not represent the Texas values that are ingrained in us, because we all have the DNA of Crockett and Bowie and Travis in our hearts and souls,” Mr. Patrick told a cheering audience. “We will never give up Texas!”
A spokesman for Mr. Patrick did not respond to requests for comment.
Democrats and some political analysts are calling for Texas Republicans to back away from the language used in Mr. Abbott’s campaign letter and acknowledge the role that anti-immigrant rhetoric may have played in the attack.
“Our Texas lieutenant governor describes immigration as an ‘illegal invasion,’” said Greg Casar, who is a Hispanic member of the Austin City Council and whose district is nearly 70 percent Latino. “And the terrorist in El Paso said he was fighting the ‘Hispanic invasion.’ When our leaders in Texas campaign on ‘Show Me Your Papers’ laws, when they purge voter rolls — it’s not just a racist dog whistle. It’s a bullhorn.”
El Paso’s Democratic congresswoman, Representative Veronica Escobar, said Mr. Abbott’s words have incited hatred of immigrants.
“These words have consequences, and give fuel to those whose hatred turns to violence,” she said in a statement. “It isn’t immigrants that make communities like mine unsafe; it’s the hateful and divisive rhetoric and policies of politicians like Greg Abbott, Dan Patrick and Donald Trump.”
One white Tea Party leader in the Fort Worth region has been criticized for social-media posts that seemed to coincide with the gunman’s complaint that whites were being culturally replaced by Hispanics.
Fred McCarty, the president of the NE Tarrant Tea Party PAC, the fund-raising arm of one of the most active tea party groups in Texas, responded to the El Paso attack on his Facebook page in the days after the shooting. “You’re not going to demographically replace a once proud, strong people without getting blowback.” Mr. McCarty wrote. In another post, he wrote: “Imagine flooding a place with foreign peoples to the point that the native population will become a minority. Then imagine being shocked at the strife and hostility that results. Imagine.”
Asked to respond to subsequent criticisms of his posts, Mr. McCarty defended his remarks, saying in a statement that his views about immigration have widespread support among Republicans. “I’ve heard from tons of them,” his statement said. “Most Republicans agree with me. It’s seventy percent of Republicans who want every illegal alien deported and that number is growing daily.”
Still, the political blowback to the governor’s mailer has led many to call for a rethinking of politics as usual.
“They have to be more careful with that language,” James Riddlesperger, a political-science professor at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, said of the governor’s letter. “Moving forward, I wouldn’t be surprised if we’ll see them back off of the rhetoric a little bit. No politician in Texas wants to be in a position where if a crazy person acts in a racist way that anything that they have said could be interpreted as encouraging that kind of behavior.”
Manny Fernandez reported from Houston, and David Montgomery reported from Austin, Tex. 
PHOTOS: Gov. Greg Abbott, right, after the shooting in El Paso, has drawn the ire of Democrats for a fund-raising letter sent by his campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL ANGEL JUAREZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE — GETTY IMAGES); High school students paid their respects this month at a memorial to the victims of the shooting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALLA KESSLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


A Melting Pot of Immigrants, and of Views on Immigration Laws
The New York Times
July 31, 2019 Wednesday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14
Length: 1686 words
Byline: By STEPHANIE SAUL; Jonathan Martin contributed reporting from Washington.
Body


RACINE, Wis. -- In this old manufacturing city that supported Hillary Clinton in 2016, dislike for President Trump runs wide and deep. Images of crying children at the Mexican border typically serve as Exhibit A on the list of grievances that Democratic voters cite against the president.
Many of those same voters also express strong views opposing illegal border crossings, often rooted in their own family stories of coming to America. If you want a chance at the American dream, they say, you should play by the rules. 
  ''I think everybody should come in the right way, just like our ancestors did,'' said Christy Cowles, 59, a retired city worker who is a fan of Senator Bernie Sanders.
  Voters like Ms. Cowles present a conundrum for Democrats as they navigate the sensitive topic of immigration. While many Democrats express a desire to ease the way for aspiring immigrants, party leaders also worry that an immigration agenda that shifts too far left could alienate voters in tightly contested states like Wisconsin, ranging from avowed liberals like Ms. Cowles to coveted swing voters.
  In the first round of Democratic debates in June, candidates staked out aggressively liberal positions on immigration, with near-unanimous support for decriminalizing illegal border crossings.
  The idea was first advanced by the former secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Julián Castro, who is among those scheduled to be onstage Wednesday night in the second set of debates. Jeh Johnson, the head of homeland security during the Obama administration, criticized the concept as tantamount to permitting open borders. Since then, another candidate, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, also slated to appear Wednesday night, said he would virtually eliminate immigration detention.
  In Tuesday night's debate, Senator Elizabeth Warren took the lead, arguing in favor of decriminalizing illegal border crossings.
  ''As Americans, what we need to do is to have a sane system that keeps us safe at the border, but does not criminalize the activity,'' she said.
  Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, one of several candidates staking out a more moderate approach, responded by saying, ''If you want to come into this country, you should at least ring the doorbell.''
  In a sign of the escalating concerns within the party, several Democratic governors this month expressed alarm about open borders rhetoric. And a document recently circulated to House Democrats from party consultants advised a more moderate approach -- suggesting the party emphasize a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants who ''work hard and pay their taxes'' but also stress the importance of secure borders.
  [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.]
  ''Beyond policy, the best frame on immigration acknowledges the problem and talks about solutions -- both addressing border security and a path to earned citizenship,'' read the memo, which was addressed to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
  A recent Gallup poll found that immigration tops the list of issues that Americans view as important. Mr. Trump's demands for a wall at the Mexican border, as well as tighter restrictions on immigration, have emerged as an emotional issue in the presidential campaign. The president and his supporters have called Democrats soft on enforcement, while Democrats counter that the wall and inhumane treatment of those seeking asylum are antithetical to the core values of the United States.
  There are few places where the topic is more contentious than in Wisconsin, a swing state where it has been used as a cudgel against Democrats, even in local races for elected positions with no role in federal immigration policy.
  Rob Grover, a Democrat who ran for the Wisconsin Assembly last year, said he was surprised when a flier paid for by the Wisconsin Republican Party arrived in local mailboxes suggesting he wanted to abolish the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. Mr. Grover, who describes himself as conservative on immigration issues, said he had never expressed such a view. He lost his race in western Wisconsin.
  Immigration has emerged as an issue in other state races as well, with right-leaning appeals that appear designed to inflame anti-immigrant passion, according to Ben Wikler, chairman of the Wisconsin Democratic Party, who blamed huge last-minute spending around immigration and other issues for defeating the Democratic candidate in this year's Wisconsin Supreme Court election. Special interest groups -- on both sides of the race -- reported spending more than $4 million in an effort to sway its outcome.
  With its Democratic city center and a surrounding rural area that skews Republican, Racine County is known for swinging from one party to another, serving as a national bellwether in predicting the outcome of presidential races. In 2016, the county voted for Mr. Trump.
  And in this swing district, some local Democrats have speculated that immigration helped torpedo their efforts last year to win the congressional seat held by the former House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, according to Fabi Maldonado, a Racine County supervisor and immigration advocate.
  The Democratic candidate, Randy Bryce, had been arrested while protesting Mr. Ryan's position on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, which delays deportation and allows work permits for undocumented immigrants brought into the country as children.
  ''There was internal fighting in the Democratic Party over whether he was too open about supporting illegal immigration,'' Mr. Maldonado said. ''Some of that might be true, but you have to be for immigration rights if you want Latinx voters to turn out.''
  Ms. Cowles, the retired city worker, said that her forebears arrived in Racine a century ago from Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia and Germany, joining a wave of European immigrants who settled this lakefront city 30 miles south of Milwaukee. African-Americans arrived during the Great Migration and, more recently, the Latino population has swelled to about 20 percent.
  The city has largely embraced its multiethnic mosaic. Tortillas are sold on the same block as kringles, the Wisconsin state pastry introduced here by Danish immigrants. The Racine City Council recently endorsed the idea of permitting driver's licenses for undocumented residents.
  Interviews here with more than a dozen Democrats and left-leaning voters revealed disagreement on immigration. Some favored more relaxed policies and others urged a cautious approach, recalling stories passed down through generations about how their own ancestors struggled to find sponsors before arriving at Ellis Island.
  Kevin Hughes, who retired from a factory that makes V05 shampoo, said he favored more liberal policies. ''Everybody is going somewhere else to try to make a better life for their family,'' said Mr. Hughes, 59. ''Why would you want to criminalize that?''
  Maria Haenel, 35, who was born in Illinois to Mexican parents, held a similar view. ''Even if immigrants that have come over the border, even if they don't have papers, they should be given a chance to get a work visa, or a student visa, or some type of help to stay here and be able to live the American dream,'' said Ms. Haenel, a caregiver for elderly people.
  Yet some members of Racine's Mexican-American community said they worried about opening up borders too liberally.
  Lewis Mendoza, 68, takes pride in the contribution of Mexican people to the Wisconsin economy, particularly in the dairy industry, where a high percentage of workers are believed to be undocumented.
  ''There was a time when blue-eyed, blond-haired people did that job,'' said Mr. Mendoza, a Democrat who voted for Mrs. Clinton. ''You don't see any white people anymore. It's all Mexican people. What are you going to do if you send them back?''
  But Mr. Mendoza, a veteran who has worked as a dishwasher in Racine restaurants alongside undocumented workers, also expressed skepticism about migrants who enter the country illegally. ''As far as just jumping over a fence or something, I don't know about that. I'm a little leery about that,'' he said.
  Racine is known for its ethnic festivals, many held on the shore of Lake Michigan.
  A lakefront fair last week sponsored by the Roma Lodge, an Italian welfare association, featured fireworks, Frank Sinatra music and a dinner of mostaccioli and ravioli. Jim Faraone, a former board member of the organization, was in charge of selling lottery tickets to raise money for local health charities.
  Mr. Faraone, a Vietnam veteran, is a swing voter, having supported both Barack Obama and Mrs. Clinton, but also Mr. Ryan, a Republican. He also expressed skepticism about an overly broad border policy.
  ''They shouldn't be here unless they came in legally; it's the only way,'' said Mr. Faraone, 77, whose father immigrated from Italy and developed the home building business that Mr. Faraone later operated in the area. Echoing Mr. Trump's warnings, Mr. Faraone expressed fear that other countries were offloading ''murderers and other criminals'' into the United States.
  Ginny Ziolkowski, 70, also said she swung from one party to another, most recently supporting Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton, but before that the Republican president George W. Bush. As for Mr. Trump, ''I personally can't stand him,'' she said as she took in the view at Racine's lakefront.
  But Ms. Ziolkowski, whose late husband was the Racine County executive -- a lakefront park here bears his name -- said she leaned conservative on immigration issues and opposed providing health care benefits to undocumented migrants, another idea some candidates endorsed during the first debates. It's clearly an issue the Trump campaign feels works in its favor; on Tuesday, it released a new ad blasting Democrats for supporting the idea.
  ''I feel they need to come in legally if they want to live here,'' Ms. Ziolkowski said. ''And they should not be getting education, health care and other benefits.''
  Jonathan Martin contributed reporting from Washington.

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/31/us/politics/wisconsin-democrats-immigration-policy.html

Graphic

 
PHOTOS: With its Democratic city center and a surrounding rural area that skews more Republican, Racine County, Wis., often swings from one party to another. Christy Cowles, left, a supporter of Senator Bernie Sanders, said, ''I think everybody should come in the right way, just like our ancestors did.'' Kevin Hughes, on the other hand, does not favor crimininalizing border crossings.
 A fair in the county, which has had various waves of immigrants over time. Racine is about 20 percent Latino. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WHITTEN SABBATINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)       

Load-Date: July 31, 2019


End of Document


In Wisconsin Swing District, a Range of Views on Immigration
The New York Times 
July 31, 2019 Wednesday 15:27 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: US; politics
Length: 1794 words
Byline: Stephanie Saul
Highlight: Invoking family stories of coming to America, many left-leaning voters in the multiethnic city of Racine say immigrants should enter legally.
Body


Invoking family stories of coming to America, many left-leaning voters in the multiethnic city of Racine say immigrants should enter legally. 
RACINE, Wis. — In this old manufacturing city that supported Hillary Clinton in 2016, dislike for President Trump runs wide and deep. Images of crying children at the Mexican border typically serve as Exhibit A on the list of grievances that Democratic voters cite against the president.
Many of those same voters also express strong views opposing illegal border crossings, often rooted in their own family stories of coming to America. If you want a chance at the American dream, they say, you should play by the rules.
“I think everybody should come in the right way, just like our ancestors did,” said Christy Cowles, 59, a retired city worker who is a fan of Senator Bernie Sanders.
Voters like Ms. Cowles present a conundrum for Democrats as they navigate the sensitive topic of immigration. While many Democrats express a desire to ease the way for aspiring immigrants, party leaders also worry that an immigration agenda that shifts too far left could alienate voters in tightly contested states like Wisconsin, ranging from avowed liberals like Ms. Cowles to coveted swing voters.
In the first round of Democratic debates in June, candidates staked out aggressively liberal positions on immigration, with near-unanimous support for decriminalizingillegal border crossings. 
The idea was first advanced by the former secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Julián Castro, who is among those scheduled to be onstage Wednesday night in the second set of debates. Jeh Johnson, the head of homeland security during the Obama administration, criticized the concept as tantamount to permitting open borders. Since then, another candidate, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, also slated to appear Wednesday night, said he would            virtually eliminate immigration detention.
In Tuesday night’s debate, Senator Elizabeth Warren took the lead, arguing in favor of decriminalizing illegal border crossings.
“As Americans, what we need to do is to have a sane system that keeps us safe at the border, but does not criminalize the activity,” she said.
Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, one of several candidates staking out a more moderate approach, responded by saying, “If you want to come into this country, you should at least ring the doorbell.” 
In a sign of the escalating concerns within the party, several Democratic governors this month expressed alarmabout open borders rhetoric. And a document recently circulated to House Democrats from party consultants advised a more moderate approach — suggesting the party emphasize a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants who “work hard and pay their taxes” but also stress the importance of secure borders.
[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.]
“Beyond policy, the best frame on immigration acknowledges the problem and talks about solutions — both addressing border security and a path to earned citizenship,” read the memo, which was addressed to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
A recent Gallup poll found that immigration tops the list of issues that Americans view as important. Mr. Trump’s demands for a wall at the Mexican border, as well as tighter restrictions on immigration, have emerged as an emotional issue in the presidential campaign. The president and his supporters have called Democrats soft on enforcement, while Democrats counter that the wall and inhumane treatment of those seeking asylum are antithetical to the core values of the United States.
There are few places where the topic is more contentious than in Wisconsin, a swing state where it has been used as a cudgel against Democrats, even in local races for elected positions with no role in federal immigration policy.
Rob Grover, a Democrat who ran for the Wisconsin Assembly last year, said he was surprised when a flier   paid for by the Wisconsin Republican Party arrived in local mailboxes suggesting he wanted to abolish the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. Mr. Grover, who describes himself as conservative on immigration issues, said he had never expressed such a view. He lost his race in western Wisconsin.
Immigration has emerged as an issue in other state races as well, with right-leaning appeals that appear designed to inflame anti-immigrant passion, according to Ben Wikler, chairman of the Wisconsin Democratic Party, who blamed huge last-minute spending around immigration and other issues for defeating the Democratic candidate in this year’s Wisconsin Supreme Court election. Special interest groups — on both sides of the race — reported spending more than $4 million in an effort to sway its outcome.
With its Democratic city center and a surrounding rural area that skews Republican, Racine County is known for swinging from one party to another, serving as a national bellwether in predicting the outcome of presidential races. In 2016, the county voted for Mr. Trump.
And in this swing district, some local Democrats have speculated that immigration helped torpedo their efforts last year to win the congressional seat held by the former House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, according to Fabi Maldonado, a Racine County supervisor and immigration advocate.
The Democratic candidate, Randy Bryce, had been arrested while protesting Mr. Ryan’s position on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, which delays deportation and allows work permits for undocumented immigrants brought into the country as children. 
“There was internal fighting in the Democratic Party over whether he was too open about supporting illegal immigration,” Mr. Maldonado said. “Some of that might be true, but you have to be for immigration rights if you want Latinx voters to turn out.”
Ms. Cowles, the retired city worker, said that her forebears arrived in Racine a century ago from Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia and Germany, joining a wave of European immigrants who settled this lakefront city 30 miles south of Milwaukee. African-Americans arrived during the Great Migration and, more recently, the Latino population has swelled to about 20 percent.
The city has largely embraced its multiethnic mosaic. Tortillas are sold on the same block as kringles, the Wisconsin state pastry introduced here by Danish immigrants. The Racine City Council recently endorsed the idea of permitting driver’s licenses for undocumented residents.
Interviews here with more than a dozen Democrats and left-leaning voters revealed disagreement on immigration. Some favored more relaxed policies and others urged a cautious approach, recalling stories passed down through generations about how their own ancestors struggled to find sponsors before arriving at Ellis Island. 
Kevin Hughes, who retired from a factory that makes V05 shampoo, said he favored more liberal policies. “Everybody is going somewhere else to try to make a better life for their family,” said Mr. Hughes, 59. “Why would you want to criminalize that?” 
Maria Haenel, 35, who was born in Illinois to Mexican parents, held a similar view. “Even if immigrants that have come over the border, even if they don’t have papers, they should be given a chance to get a work visa, or a student visa, or some type of help to stay here and be able to live the American dream,” said Ms. Haenel, a caregiver for elderly people. 
Yet some members of Racine’s Mexican-American community said they worried about opening up borders too liberally.
Lewis Mendoza, 68, takes pride in the contribution of Mexican people to the Wisconsin economy, particularly in the dairy industry, where a high percentage of workers are believed to be undocumented. 
“There was a time when blue-eyed, blond-haired people did that job,” said Mr. Mendoza, a Democrat who voted for Mrs. Clinton. “You don’t see any white people anymore. It’s all Mexican people. What are you going to do if you send them back?”
But Mr. Mendoza, a veteran who has worked as a dishwasher in Racine restaurants alongside undocumented workers, also expressed skepticism about migrants who enter the country illegally. “As far as just jumping over a fence or something, I don’t know about that. I’m a little leery about that,” he said.
Racine is known for its ethnic festivals, many held on the shore of Lake Michigan.
A lakefront fair last week sponsored by the Roma Lodge, an Italian welfare association, featured fireworks, Frank Sinatra music and a dinner of mostaccioli and ravioli. Jim Faraone, a former board member of the organization, was in charge of selling lottery tickets to raise money for local health charities. 
Mr. Faraone, a Vietnam veteran, is a swing voter, having supported both Barack Obama and Mrs. Clinton, but also Mr. Ryan, a Republican. He also expressed skepticism about an overly broad border policy.
“They shouldn’t be here unless they came in legally; it’s the only way,” said Mr. Faraone, 77, whose father immigrated from Italy and developed the home building business that Mr. Faraone later operated in the area. Echoing Mr. Trump’s warnings, Mr. Faraone expressed fear that other countries were offloading “murderers and other criminals” into the United States. 
Ginny Ziolkowski, 70, also said she swung from one party to another, most recently supporting Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton, but before that the Republican president George W. Bush. As for Mr. Trump, “I personally can’t stand him,” she said as she took in the view at Racine’s lakefront.
But Ms. Ziolkowski, whose late husband was the Racine County executive — a lakefront parkhere bears his name — said she leaned conservative on immigration issues and opposed providing health care benefits to undocumented migrants, another idea some candidates endorsed during the first debates. It’s clearly an issue the Trump campaign feels works in its favor; on Tuesday, it            released a new ad blasting Democrats for supporting the idea.
“I feel they need to come in legally if they want to live here,” Ms. Ziolkowski said. “And they should not be getting education, health care and other benefits.” 
Jonathan Martin contributed reporting from Washington. 
Jonathan Martin contributed reporting from Washington. 
PHOTOS: With its Democratic city center and a surrounding rural area that skews more Republican, Racine County, Wis., often swings from one party to another. Christy Cowles, left, a supporter of Senator Bernie Sanders, said, “I think everybody should come in the right way, just like our ancestors did.” Kevin Hughes, on the other hand, does not favor crimininalizing border crossings.; A fair in the county, which has had various waves of immigrants over time. Racine is about 20 percent Latino. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WHITTEN SABBATINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 1, 2019


End of Document

Date and Time: Monday, August 26, 2019 8:53:00 AM EDT
Job Number: 95794606
Documents (10)
1. Country Is Full? It's News to Us, Employers Say
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
2. G.O.P. Embraced Koch Vision, Until Trump Tossed It All Aside
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
3. Migrant Families Facing Detention With No End Date
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
4. Coming of Age Amid a Limbo of Prejudice and Restriction
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
5. Culture Shock
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
6. Democrats Seize on Trade Chaos To Undercut Trump on Economy
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
7. Hong Kong, G7, Kashmir: Your Monday Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
8. Hong Kong, G7, Kashmir: Your Monday Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
9. Hong Kong, G7, Kashmir: Your Monday Briefing
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times
10. The Peaches Are Sweet, but Growing Them Isn't
Client/Matter: -None-
Search Terms: immigration
Search Type: Natural Language 
Narrowed by: 

Content TypeNarrowed byNewsTimeline: Jan 01, 2018 to Dec 31, 2019; Sources: The New York Times


Country Is Full? It's News to Us, Employers Say
The New York Times
August 23, 2019 Friday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1
Length: 1717 words
Byline: By PATRICIA COHEN
Follow Patricia Cohen on Twitter: @PatcohenNYT.
Body


MIAMI -- After finishing a particularly satisfying dinner at a Coral Gables restaurant with his wife, Pedro Martinez quietly slipped around to the back alley where the kitchen is.
''Whatever you're making, I'll give you a raise,'' Mr. Martinez whispered when the back door swung open. An executive at 50 Eggs, a restaurant group based in Miami, he is always ready with a stack of business cards for occasions like this. 
  More immigrants have streamed into South Florida than to most American cities, and for decades, employers have relied on them to wash dishes, put up drywall and care for grandmothers. Still, there are not enough to fill Miami's relentless boomtown demand for workers.
  As unemployment rates nationwide have sunk to record lows, filching workers -- from kitchens and construction sites, warehouses and Walmarts, truck cabs and nursing homes -- has become routine. In cities like Miami that are magnets for immigrants, newcomers have filled some job openings, but employers across several industries and states insist that many more are needed for their businesses to function, let alone grow.
  The economic impact is just one facet of an immigration debate that vibrates with political and moral import, challenging ideas about America's identity and culture. But it is also one that can be examined more dispassionately by looking at the numbers.
  And the numbers, most economists say, indicate that there is plenty of room. Immigrants make the country richer, they argue.
  ''Without immigration, we shrink as a nation,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who has advised Republican presidential candidates and now leads the conservative American Action Forum.
  That's because growth is driven by two ingredients: the size of the work force and how efficiently those workers produce things. And both are creeping well behind the postwar average.
  One reason is that Americans are having fewer babies. Birthrates fell last year to a three-decade low, ensuring that the next generation of native-born Americans will be smaller than the current one.
  The result is fewer workers and consumers; fewer houses to build, phones to sell and cars to buy; fewer gains all around. Turn away new immigrants, and the picture darkens considerably.
  Using census data, the investment company the Blackstone Group estimates that without immigration, the working-age population between 25 and 64 years old would drop by 17 million by 2035.
  ''We really need immigrants,'' Byron R. Wien, vice chairman of Blackstone's Private Wealth Solutions group, said during the company's quarterly webcast last month. ''If we have a shrinking population, it's going to be tough to have rising G.D.P.,'' or gross domestic product.
  At the moment, there are 7.3 million job openings nationwide and six million people unemployed. That gap is expected to widen as the number of retirees grows faster than the number of new workers.
  ''In every market that we're in, we're dealing with staffing shortages,'' said Pilar Carvajal, the founder and chief executive of Innovation Senior Management, which manages seven assisted-living centers in Florida. Entry-level workers in the area make from $10 to $12 an hour -- the same as a dishwasher and slightly more than a farmworker.
  She has turned away business, declining to manage properties in Fort Myers. ''It's a staffing void,'' she confided during a visit to a memory care center in Broward County. Employment agencies won't even return phone calls.
  ''Thank God we have immigrants coming in,'' she said. ''We're hiring them as fast as they come.''
  More than a million immigrants enter the United States every year, most of them through authorized channels. Altogether, there are more than 44 million immigrants, or 13.6 percent of the population. The share is significantly higher than it was in 1970, but below the peak in the 1890s, when millions of Europeans crossed the Atlantic Ocean.
  President Trump has publicly resisted the argument that the nation needs more immigrants. ''Our country is full,'' he said during a visit to the border this spring. ''We can't take any more.''
  But Mr. Trump's proposals have at times deviated from his statements. In May, he proposed revamping legal immigration, without reducing the overall level, by giving preference to immigrants with skills, education and job offers, instead of people with family ties.
  There is no way to figure out precisely how many more immigrants the national economy could easily absorb without a lot of guessing. Powerful forces like technology, globalization and the decline in union strength can heave economies around willy-nilly, benefiting some workers and hurting others, regardless of immigration.
  Despite a decade-long expansion and a low official jobless rate, the income gap is widening, and many Americans struggle to find stable employment and middle-class wages.
  A common complaint is that immigrants snatch jobs from native-born Americans, particularly those who didn't finish high school. This group is already most likely to earn the minimum wage or be out of work.
  There is scattershot evidence that in some places immigrants can press down wages at the lowest end of the income scale, but that is not typical.
  An economy, after all, is not a snapshot frozen in time, but a moving picture. Immigrants take jobs, but they also help create jobs -- by generating demand for goods and services like groceries, haircuts and homes.
  More often, economists say, immigrants complement American workers. More educated women, for example, may decide to work if the availability of immigrants makes child care more affordable.
  And many tasks that most people previously did themselves -- mowing lawns, polishing nails, picking up takeout, driving -- are now contracted out because there is labor to do them.
  ''The middle class is afforded some luxuries that only the affluent could afford in the past because of immigration,'' said Muzaffar Chishti, director of the Migration Policy Institute's office at New York University School of Law. ''If people are prepared to adjust their needs, we don't need as many immigrants.''
  Choices about how to provide essential services and compensate workers are not just economic but political as well, Mr. Chishti pointed out: Should the government spend more on training, offer workers incentives to relocate, subsidize elder care, protect workers' bargaining power or help build affordable housing so that low-wage workers can cover basic expenses?
  What happens now is that migrants tend to fill jobs that citizens don't want to take for the pay offered. And they are also much more willing to pick up and move to a new city or state for a job.
  Significantly higher wages might attract more native-born workers to the service jobs that many immigrants occupy -- in health care, housekeeping or hothouses. But if labor costs raise the price of tomatoes or a manicure, people will purchase fewer of them.
  Push up costs too much, and some jobs might disappear or move to other countries.
  Over all, income and production would shrink.
  In Houston, the economy has averaged 2.5 percent annual growth over the last decade. Maintaining that growth requires immigration, the Center for Houston's Future, a research group associated with the Greater Houston Partnership, concluded.
  In industries like health care, hospitality, construction and technology, there are simply not enough workers to sustain the growth rate. During the last decade, the Houston area's native-born work force grew 1.6 percent annually while the number of documented immigrants jumped 5 percent. Undocumented workers increased 0.4 percent.
  To many workers, complaints about a labor shortage ring hollow when companies are earning record profits and giving executives multimillion-dollar paychecks while offering workers meager raises.
  Several businesses, though, have much slimmer profits. Nationwide, for example, restaurant profit margins average 3 to 5 percent.
  At one of 50 Eggs' busiest restaurants in Miami, Yardbird Southern Table and Bar, roughly 80 percent of the staff members were born abroad.
  ''The idea that legal immigrants are taking jobs away from residents of the U.S. is just not reality,'' said John Kunkel, the founder and chief executive of 50 Eggs, which also operates Yardbird locations in Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Dallas and Singapore. ''That's the armchair view of somebody who doesn't run a business.''
  Seasonal industries, like agriculture and resorts, are particularly dependent on migrant workers. Several Trump Organization properties have obtained temporary visas to employ dozens of foreign-born workers.
  This past tomato season, DiMare Fresh, a family-owned distributor with farms in Florida and California, had scores of unfilled jobs.
  At its main packing house in Homestead, about an hour south of Miami, the company was able to fill only 165 of the 280 open jobs. Another center in Ruskin, near Tampa, lost many of its workers when Amazon opened a fulfillment center a few minutes away.
  ''Amazon has sucked up all the labor,'' said Paul DiMare, the chief executive. He said his business could not afford to offer year-round employment or benefits.
  The company is experimenting with new technology -- a machine to automatically stack 25-pound boxes of tomatoes on pallets, and sensors to sort tomatoes by size and color when there aren't enough graders, usually older Haitian women at this site, to eyeball the produce as it loops along conveyor belts.
  Automation, rather than higher wages, is often the response to labor shortages. When immigration restrictions in the mid-1960s dried up the pool of Mexican farm laborers, California growers started using mechanical harvesters to pick tomatoes.
  ''Firms adjust,'' said Jay Shambaugh, director of the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution. ''If you have a shortage of low-skill workers, you'll get more kiosks at McDonald's where you punch in your order.''
  Tomato season in Florida doesn't resume until November. In the meantime, Mr. DiMare shakes his head when asked about detentions at the border and deportation raids.
  ''They want to send all these people back,'' he said. ''Who the hell is going to do all this work?''

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/22/business/economy/trump-immigration-employers.html

Graphic

 
PHOTOS: About 80 percent of the workers at Yardbird Southern Table and Bar in Miami were born abroad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT MCINTYRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
There aren't enough native-born workers to fill the ranks of booming industries like construction.
 DiMare Fresh and other distributors rely on migrant workers to harvest crops such as tomatoes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (A14)       

Load-Date: August 23, 2019


End of Document


G.O.P. Embraced Koch Vision, Until Trump Tossed It All Aside
The New York Times
August 24, 2019 Saturday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17
Length: 1584 words
Byline: By SHANE GOLDMACHER
Body


In 1980, David H. Koch, one of the two billionaire industrialist brothers at the center of a sprawling and powerful political network, served as the Libertarian Party's vice-presidential nominee. The ticket earned 1.1 percent.
But in the years since that failed run, Mr. Koch, who died on Friday, and his brother Charles, found far greater power and influence outside of elected office as they became two of the most prominent faces in a new era of megadonors in American politics, building a political apparatus that, at its peak, rivaled the Republican Party itself. 
  The Kochs and their network spent hundreds of millions of dollars in support of their particular brand of conservatism: One of limited government, more lenient immigration policy, free trade, free markets and limited corporate regulations -- all while running Koch Industries, a conglomerate with annual revenues of $100 billion. But not long after they rose to become two of the most coveted political donors in America, they saw much of their worldview rejected by President Trump's ascendant version of the Republican Party.
  Because so much of their network's money was funneled through an array of nonprofits, where full disclosure of finances is not required, it is near impossible to assess the full scope of their operations, but the influence is vast.
  ''The Koch brothers have been very strategically thinking about how best to shape politics over decades and at the same time they were amassing a fortune that would power whatever strategy they devised,'' said Sheila Krumholz, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks money in politics. She noted that they were especially effective working on narrow issues while pursuing a larger strategy.
  ''The Kochs,'' she said, ''have built an empire.''
  The Face of Big Money
  ''If not us, who? If not now, when?'' opened a letter from Charles G. Koch to donors in 2010, inviting them to join what the Kochs called their semiannual ''seminars,'' gatherings of major contributors that would become the hallmark of the network.
  The Koch-funded political operation would help propel the Tea Party takeover of Congress in 2010, spend an estimated $400 million on the 2012 campaign and fund heavily the Republican takeover of the Senate in 2014.
  Along the way, the Kochs took full advantage after the Supreme Court sided with Citizens United and other rulings loosened spending rules. They became the most feared, recognized and loathed (by the left) Republican donors in the nation, surpassing even Karl Rove, as the boogeyman of Republican big money. In a sign of the vitriol around him, the hashtag #DavidKochisDeadParty was trending on Twitter Friday.
  Matt Schlapp, who oversaw federal affairs for Koch Industries during President George W. Bush's second term and is now the chairman of the American Conservative Union, said the most lasting legacy of the Koch network will likely be its funding of a large network of think tanks and universities.
  ''I give the Kochs and their network high marks on understanding that if they don't change hearts and minds and build institutions that can educate people in the nonprofit world then the world will drift to the left, the government will continue to grow,'' Mr. Schlapp said.
  He said their direct impact on politics was less pronounced. ''The best judgment you can give it is mixed,'' he said. Part of that mixed legacy is linked to the rise of Mr. Trump. Some prominent alumni of Koch-funded organizations do hold high-ranking positions in the Trump administration. But the Kochs' approach to governance, beyond curbing business regulations and cutting taxes, has often been sidelined, if not rejected outright, by the Republican Party under President Trump, who dismissed the brothers as ''a total joke'' last year.
  Trevor Potter, a former chairman of the Federal Election Commission and the current president of the Campaign Legal Center, a watchdog group, said the true Koch legacy was having ''diminished our democracy.''
  ''The Kochs changed two things. First, the system went from transparent spending to secret spending,'' Mr. Potter said. ''The second was they were an important part of the wave of billionaires who took campaign spending to an entirely different level in American politics.''
  Both developments, he said, gave average Americans a deep sense of disenfranchisement.
  'A Historical Power Player'
  Parts of the Koch network have at one point touched on nearly every facet of the conservative movement. There have been separate organizations for outreach to Latinos (the LIBRE Initiative), veterans (Concerned Veterans for America), younger voters (Generation Opportunity) and older voters (60 Plus Association), for instance. A national political group, Americans for Prosperity, established outposts in the majority of states across the country.
  ''David Koch helped design and implement the center-right, free enterprise, activist wing of the political spectrum,'' said Scott Reed, the senior political strategist of the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''And he became a historical power player.''
  The agenda for the 2010 Koch seminar was revealing. It included fighting ''climate change alarmism and the move to socialized health care,'' as well as ''the regulatory assault on energy'' -- issues that would recur over in the coming years.
  In 2014, the Koch network was at the center of the successful Republican efforts to wrest control of the Senate from Democrats. A network of six Koch-linked nonprofits had paid to air nearly 44,000 television spots by August of that year, according to a study by the Center for Public Integrity.
  Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat who was then the Senate majority leader, took to the Senate floor in early 2014 to declare that ''Senate Republicans are addicted to Koch'' (the name is pronounced coke), as the network's television ads hammered Democrats in key races.
  The sweeping Republican Senate victories that fall put Senator Mitch McConnell in power. He would use the majority to block some of President Obama's final judicial appointments, most notably forcing a vacancy on the Supreme Court for nearly a year until it was filled by President Trump's selection of Judge Neil Gorsuch in early 2017.
  Environmental groups have denounced the Kochs, whose business empire includes oil operations, as ''secretly funding the climate denial machine,'' as Greenpeace put it, adding up to $127 million in such spending over two decades. Among the recent Koch brothers pursuits has been killing mass transit projects around the country.
  ''If someone has the freedom to go where they want, do what they want,'' Tori Venable, Tennessee state director for Americans for Prosperity, told The New York Times last year, ''they're not going to choose public transit.''
  The Kochs were perhaps at their peak in 2015, as the last Republican presidential primary was heating up. Koch officials outlined plans to spend as much as $900 million that cycle -- possibly as much as the Republican Party itself. In a sign of their influence, Jeb Bush, Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio, Scott Walker and Carly Fiorina all trekked to a luxury hotel in Southern California to pitch the network's donors in person that summer.
  ''I, for one, cannot wait to see who the Koch brothers pick,'' President Obama joked at the White House Correspondents Association dinner that year.
  'Two Nice Guys With Bad Ideas'
  But the Kochs did not get their pick. Instead, Mr. Trump would go on to win the nomination and redirect the party away from the Koch network's brand of fiscal conservatism, and their preference for free trade and a more open immigration policy. (The Kochs did spend millions supporting Mr. Trump's tax cut legislation.)
  ''Trump's passion was clearly focused on stopping immigration and stopping free trade and that was pretty well unacceptable to the Kochs,'' said David Boaz, executive vice president of the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank that has longed received money from the brothers.
  In mid-2018, Charles Koch, without naming Mr. Trump, warned of the ''rise of protectionism'' and those who were ''doing whatever they can to close themselves off from the new, hold on to the past, and prevent change.''
  Mr. Trump quickly responded. He attacked the brothers, saying they ''have become a total joke in real Republican circles'' with a ''highly overrated'' political network.
  ''Two nice guys with bad ideas,'' Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter.
  In a shift last year, the Koch network ran ads in support of a Democratic senator, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, who was being challenged by a staunch Trump supporter, Kevin Cramer. Mr. Cramer won the election. This year, the network has signaled plans to stay out of the White House contest entirely.
  Yet even as the Kochs have receded somewhat from electoral politics, alumni of their network continue to hold sway in Mr. Trump's government. A former top Koch operative, Marc Short, for instance, served as Mr. Trump's legislative affairs director and is now chief of staff to Vice President Mike Pence. Mr. Schlapp's wife, Mercedes, is a senior White House official. And a former director of communications for Koch Industries, Matt Lloyd, is a senior adviser at the State Department.
  ''It is really hard to quantify their impact,'' Ms. Krumholz said of the Kochs. ''It was enormous. It was pervasive.''
  This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.         

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/23/us/politics/david-koch-republican-politics.html

Graphic

 
PHOTOS: David H. Koch, left, was the Libertarian running mate of Ed Clark in 1980. They received 1.1 percent of the vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDY RASMUSSEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Protesters outside the Manhattan apartment of Mr. Koch in 2014 spoke out against the Koch brothers' spending of hundreds of millions of dollars on political causes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES)       

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document


Migrant Families Facing Detention With No End Date
The New York Times
August 22, 2019 Thursday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1
Length: 1648 words
Byline: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and ZOLAN KANNO-YOUNGS; Caitlin Dickerson contributed reporting from New York.
Body


WASHINGTON -- The Trump administration on Wednesday unveiled a regulation to allow it to indefinitely detain migrant families who illegally cross the border. The rule replaces a decades-old court agreement that mandates a level of care for migrant children and limits how long the government can hold them in custody.
For more than a year, the White House has pressed the Department of Homeland Security to find a way to eliminate the agreement, known as the Flores settlement, which limits the time children can spend in detention and establishes minimum standards for the holding facilities for families and children. Immigration hard-liners inside the administration say the move is crucial to halting the flow of migrants across the southwestern border. 
  The administration's goal with the new rule is deterrence, and its message to families fleeing Central American is blunt: Come here and we will lock you up. Critics say it is the latest in a series of policies by President Trump meant to close off the United States from the rest of the world.
  ''One of the things that will happen, when they realize the borders are closing -- the wall is being built, we are building tremendous numbers of miles of wall right now in different locations -- it all comes together like a beautiful puzzle,'' Mr. Trump said Wednesday.
  Speaking to reporters at the White House, Mr. Trump asserted that the new rule would ''make it almost impossible for people to come into our country illegally.''
  The new regulation will require approval from a federal judge, and administration officials said they expected it to be immediately challenged in court. But once in effect, it would specifically abolish a 20-day limit on detaining families in immigration jails, a cap that Mr. Trump has repeatedly complained has led to the ''catch and release'' of families from Central America and elsewhere into the United States.
  It will also establish new minimum standards for the conditions in the detention centers where families will be housed.
  ''What this will do is to substantially increase our ability to end the catch and release challenges that have fueled this crisis,'' Kevin K. McAleenan, the acting secretary of homeland security, said on Wednesday in a news conference. He said the regulation ''restores integrity to our immigration system'' and would provide high standards for the care of children.
  Administration officials said that the effort to allow families to be detained indefinitely was an attempt to avoid having to either separate families or release them while they waited for their cases to be heard. But immigration rights advocates denounced the new regulation, accusing Mr. Trump and his administration of purposely treating families and children poorly in hopes of reducing the flow of immigration.
  ''This is yet another cruel attack on children, who the Trump administration has targeted again and again with its anti-immigrant policies,'' said Madhuri Grewal, the federal immigration policy counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union. ''The government should not be jailing kids, and certainly shouldn't be seeking to put more kids in jail for longer. Congress must not fund this.''
  The administration first proposed the rule last fall, allowing the public to comment on the potential regulation. It is scheduled to be published Friday in the Federal Register and would take effect 60 days later, though administration officials concede that the expected court challenge will probably delay that happening.
  Withdrawing from the consent decree has been a personal objective for Stephen Miller, the architect of Mr. Trump's immigration policy. The New York Times reported in April that Mr. Miller berated the former acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Ronald D. Vitiello, for not finishing the rule more quickly. Mr. Vitiello later had his nomination withdrawn by Mr. Trump, who said he was not tough enough for the job.
  [The Flores agreement protected migrant children for decades.]
  If the new rule goes into effect, the administration would be free to send families who are caught crossing the border illegally to a family residential center to be held for as long as it takes for their immigration cases to be decided.
  Mr. McAleenan said families would be detained until they were either released after being awarded asylum or deported to their home countries. Some families might be awarded parole to leave the facilities while the courts decide their fate, he said.
  Almost 475,000 members of families have crossed the southwestern border in the past 10 months, Mr. McAleenan said, a number he said was three times the previous record for a full year. He said the number of apprehensions of families crossing illegally was up 469 percent from the previous year.
  Enacting the regulation would send a powerful message that bringing children to the United States was not ''a passport'' to being released from detention, Mr. McAleenan said.
  ''The new rule will restore the integrity of our immigration system and eliminate a major pull factor fueling the crisis,'' he said.
  The 20-day limit that Wednesday's regulation would eliminate has been in place since 2015, a legal outgrowth of a 1997 court-ordered consent decree resulting from a federal class-action lawsuit that claimed that physical and emotional harm was done to immigrant children held for extended periods in the detention facilities.
  The Obama administration, in its own effort to reduce surges of migrants crossing the border, also tried to change the rules putting limits on the time families could be detained. Since Mr. Trump became president, Department of Homeland Security officials have repeatedly said that limiting the detentions of entire migrant families has been a major factor in the surge of Central American families who crossed the border this year.
  In an attempt to get around the Flores agreement, the Trump administration began separating children from their parents last summer. The children were sent to the custody of the Department of Health and Human Services while the adults were imprisoned while awaiting trial on their violation of immigration laws.
  A fierce political backlash forced Mr. Trump to publicly abandon the separation policy, though immigration advocates said some families continued to be separated after that announcement. Officials have said children are separated from their parents now only when there is a concern for their safety.
  Democrats have argued that the rules established by the Flores settlement were vital to ensuring the well-being of detained children, especially after reports of children being kept in overcrowded cells and sometimes going without showers, toothpaste or hot meals.
  But Mr. McAleenan told the House Homeland Security Committee in May that the Flores settlement had incentivized migration to the United States, saying that ''if an adult arrives with a child, they have a likelihood of staying in the United States.''
  Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the chairman of the committee, reminded Mr. McAleenan of the original purpose of the court-ordered regulations.
  ''Prolonged detention of children had proven to be harmful to their health,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''I think the court looked at it from that perspective rather than a punitive decision on the department.''
  The Trump administration's new regulation, which is several hundred pages long, would eliminate a requirement that federal detention centers for immigrant families be licensed by states, most of which had no such licenses. Instead, under the regulation, the three centers built to house hundreds of immigrant families -- in Dilley and Karnes City, Tex., and Leesport, Pa. -- would have to meet standards set only by ICE, which runs them.
  Mr. McAleenan insisted on Wednesday that the detention centers were comfortable places for families, saying one of the facilities has a room with ''a big-screen television, cushioned couches and lounge chairs, a gaming area and a separate library that contains books, other television sets, video games and board games.''
  But critics of the administration have long argued that the facilities were unsuitable for children for long periods of time. Lawmakers and others who have visited the facilities have described hourslong waits in the heat for medical care, spoiled food and limited education opportunities for children who remain in detention for long periods.
  And the recent examples of horrible conditions at overcrowded Border Patrol detention centers have underscored their concerns about the residential centers. A report by the department inspector general described conditions at the Border Patrol stations that included standing-room-only cells, as well as children being detained without showers or hot meals.
  ''We don't disagree with detaining children when it's necessary -- namely, if they're a flight risk or they're a danger to themselves or others, we agree,'' said Peter Schey, a lawyer who filed the original case and has continued to defend the settlement terms in court since. ''It's the unnecessary detention of a child that this settlement sought to end. So these regulations really reflect a flagrant disregard on the part of President Trump and his administration for the safety and the well-being of children in the care of the federal government.''
  Under the terms of the consent decree, the regulation must be approved by the federal judge currently overseeing the long-running case, Dolly M. Gee of the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The government will have seven days to file a brief in her court seeking her approval of the regulation.
  If she refuses, the administration is expected to appeal her decision in a case that could drag on for months or even years, legal experts said.

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/21/us/politics/flores-migrant-family-detention.html

Graphic

 
PHOTOS: Above, migrant families waiting at a bus station after being released in McAllen, Tex. Left, teenagers at a shelter in Homestead, Fla. The decades-old Flores agreement says that the government cannot detain children for more than 20 days. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ILANA PANICH-LINSMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 WILFREDO LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16)       

Load-Date: August 22, 2019


End of Document


Coming of Age Amid a Limbo of Prejudice and Restriction
The New York Times
August 25, 2019 Sunday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22
Length: 653 words
Byline: By ELIZABETH WEIN
Elizabeth Wein's first nonfiction book for young adults, ''A Thousand Sisters: The Heroic Airwomen of the Soviet Union in World War II,'' was published in January.
Body


It's fairly common knowledge that Chinese immigrants helped build the American railroads in the 19th century. But it's not so widely known that Chinese laborers were shipped in by Southern plantation owners to replace emancipated slaves after the Civil War. As the number of Chinese on American soil increased, resentment against these immigrants grew proportionately, and in 1882 Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act under President Chester A. Arthur. It was the first American law to restrict immigration, and the only one ever to target a specific national group. It wasn't repealed until 1943.
One direct result of this legislation was that it wasn't possible for wives or other family members to join the Chinese already living in the United States. Most were men working as cheap labor, and they struggled to integrate with mainstream American society. Neither black nor white, they inhabited a murky middle ground that often excluded them from both sides of America's racial divide. In THE DOWNSTAIRS GIRL (Putnam, 372 pp., $17.99; ages 12 and up) Stacey Lee breathes vivid life into a heroine and narrator named Jo Kuan, an American-born Chinese teenager who comes of age in this limbo of prejudice and restriction in Atlanta in 1890. 
  At 17 Jo has been raised by an aging Chinese stable hand, Old Gin, who lives with her in a hidden basement apartment originally built as a station on the Underground Railroad. Concerned that the family who edit and print a local newspaper in the house upstairs will be evicted if their subscriptions don't increase, and worried that a new tenant might threaten her own domestic situation, Jo attempts to save the newspaper by writing a series of ''agony aunt'' letters and responses -- many of them provocatively and purposefully controversial -- under the pseudonym ''Miss Sweetie.''
  This alter ego gives Jo a voice and an outlet for exploring the host of issues facing her: racial bias, the introduction of the Jim Crow laws, women's suffrage and emancipation, and the need to earn a living. Miss Sweetie's persona also gives Jo the courage and ingenuity she needs to navigate a variety of emotional challenges. She loses her job designing hats because she's a ''saucebox'' who riles some of her boss's customers; she's falling in love but has to keep it secret; she grapples with her work as maid to a fickle and fretful Southern belle who's been a lifetime frenemy; she's gradually uncovering the secrets connected with her own past. It's a complicated plot with a whiff of mystery about it, even tragedy, all as deftly woven as one of Jo's elegant hair braids or hat knots.
  ''The Downstairs Girl'' holds a mirror to our present issues while giving us a detailed and vibrant picture of life in the past. There are two sides to every story -- or more than two -- and it's easy to focus on the heroes, or the villains, when we look back at our history. Lee's superpower is the way she adds shadow and contour to the picture.
  Thus, Jo runs afoul of the dark underbelly of racism in the women's suffrage movement; but she also sees that the unsavory characters she encounters in Atlanta's underworld have realistic motivations and vulnerabilities.
  The challenges Jo faces ring true for the novel's historical setting, but they will also ring strong for Lee's contemporary readers. As a young person, Jo is resoundingly American -- an observant, open-minded, forward-thinking new woman with a Chinese face and a Southern accent.
  Her engaging voice, along with her emerging self-reliance and maturity, drive the novel and make her a character we can easily relate to. Punctuating her narrative with Miss Sweetie's tart and pun-filled advice, Jo's witty and arresting turns of phrase and her positive outlook give buoyancy to her story even in its dire moments. As Jo tackles all injustices head-on, and tension rises, the book races to a soundly satisfying conclusion.

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/13/books/review/downstairs-girl-stacey-lee.html

Graphic

 
PHOTO       

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document


Culture Shock
The New York Times
August 25, 2019 Sunday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10; FICTION
Length: 956 words
Byline: By ELAINE CASTILLO
Elaine Castillo is the author, most recently, of ''America Is Not the Heart.''
Body


A PARTICULAR KIND OF BLACK MANBy Tope Folarin
''Task: to be where I am. / Even when I'm in this solemn and absurd / role: I am still the place / where creation works on itself.'' This verse, from the Swedish poet Tomas Transtromer's ''Guard Duty,'' provides the epigraph for Tope Folarin's debut novel, ''A Particular Kind of Black Man,'' and echoes of Transtromer's lucidly self-instructive poem ring throughout its pages. 
  Folarin's coming-of-age story centers on Tunde Akinola, a young Nigerian-American boy who was born in Utah and speaks English with ''a solid middle-American accent.'' He's a first-generation kid, as unremarkable as so many unremarkable Americans. Yet Tunde's ordinariness is treated as foreignness, as is the case with so many such Americans -- sometimes at the hands of their own unpopularly elected president. He soon finds himself alienated both from his town's banal white supremacy -- the novel's opening passage is a scene of cheerful horror in which an older white woman tells a 5-year-old Tunde: ''Remember, if you are a good boy here on earth, you can serve me in heaven'' -- and from his own family, whose gradual disintegration is the beating heart of much of the book. Tunde's mother -- a Beatles and Bob Dylan fan who comes to America from Lagos expecting ''a country where love conquered all, where black people and white people lived together in peace and harmony'' -- battles both mental illness and a distinctly diasporic unhappiness that will be familiar to readers who have experienced similar scenes in their own families. ''She is just too sick,'' Tunde's father says. ''This country's no good for her.'' Folarin is attentive to the ways in which mental illness and the particular crises of poverty, immigration and Blackness can dovetail, and how communal silence and shame can magnify one rupture into many.
  [ ''A Particular Kind of Black Man'' was one of our most anticipated titles of August. See the full list. ]
  When Tunde's mother eventually leaves the family and returns to Nigeria, Tunde's father tells Tunde and his brother, Tayo, that they will soon have a new mother. Tunde's initial hope soon fades into misery as his stepmother's neglect and abuse become apparent. The fantasy of this patched-together family takes its final breath in a passage in which Tunde's bootstrap-capitalist father, a determined disciple of the entrepreneurial dream, recruits his family to sell ice cream at the Hartville City Fair, using an old post office truck with a horn-shaped speaker jerry-built onto it, and a freezer scavenged from the junkyard. The fair and its anticipated effect on their fortunes become the epicenter of the family's dreams and aspirations, and the scene crystallizes the way some moments live in a child's mind forever, becoming not just memory but monument.
  The novel moves among literary modes and registers, its formal elasticity reflecting the ways in which Folarin's protagonist situates himself in the world, as the narrow, first-person lens of the early childhood chapters gives way to anxiously diaristic teenage years. A chapter called ''September 9, 2001 1:21 AM,'' which begins, ''What do I remember about the rest of high school?,'' recalls Joe Brainard's incantatory memoir, ''I Remember.'' Tunde admits his own fallibility in attempting to empathize with his stepmother: ''Everything I've written about my stepmother so far makes her seem like a sidekick or a sitcom wife. I have no idea how I'm supposed to write about her with compassion -- to write her as a fully human character -- when I know in the end she will leave.'' He then proceeds to narrate the subsequent chapter in the second person.
  That lampshading admission underscores the novel's underdevelopment of female characters over all. Tunde's mother, stepmother and even his girlfriend remain characters in orbit; Tunde is the sun. The dilemmas of diaspora as they intersect with masculinity have corrosive effects on not just selfhood but intimacy; in this Folarin is working in an American tradition with many literary forebears. Tunde's lovestruck bliss is matched by his spiraling terror of connection: ''It's true, I've never been happier in my life,'' he reflects, but then asks, ''What happens after happiness?'' The tragedy is that Tunde cannot even begin to come up with real answers to those questions; he would rather foreclose them with easy assumptions and easier exits. But those answers are precisely what life -- wild, vulnerable, lived -- is made up of. Novels, too.
  ''My life has been kind of about moving on from one place to the next, and developing an identity that is composed of disparate parts,'' Folarin told Yale's Post45 in a 2014 interview. ''So my fiction is concerned with that kind of journey.'' The word ''particular'' in the novel's title is fitting, since what emerges most clearly in its pages is a study of the particulate self, the self as a constellation of moving parts. By the book's denouement, there are no simple resolutions; only encounters, fragile connections, the mere suggestions of answers. The ultimate shape of those answers just might look something like the final lines of Transtromer's poem:
  But to be where I am ... and to wait.I am full of anxiety, obstinate, confused.Things not yet happened are already here!I feel that. They're just out there:a murmuring mass outside the barrier.They can only slip in one by one.They want to slip in. Why? They do one by one. I am the turnstile.
  Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.
  A PARTICULAR KIND OF BLACK MANBy Tope Folarin261 pp. Simon & Schuster. $26.        

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/05/books/review/tope-folarin-a-particular-kind-of-black-man.html

Graphic

 
PHOTO: Tope Folarin (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN T. GELLERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)       

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document


Democrats Seize on Trade Chaos To Undercut Trump on Economy
The New York Times
August 25, 2019 Sunday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1
Length: 1668 words
Byline: By JIM TANKERSLEY and THOMAS KAPLAN; Jim Tankersley reported from Washington, and Thomas Kaplan from Des Moines. Trip Gabriel contributed reporting from Keene, N.H.
Body


WASHINGTON -- Weeks of turmoil in financial markets and an extraordinary outburst over trade from President Trump have opened a fresh lane of attack for Democrats hoping to unseat a president who has put the strength of the economy at the center of his re-election pitch.
On the campaign trail this past week, Democratic candidates blasted Mr. Trump for his economic stewardship, criticizing his gyrating trade policy and accusing him of hurting American workers and farmers and stoking a possible recession. In doing so, they signaled a readiness to seize an issue that has been a strength for Mr. Trump -- the nation's economy -- and harness it as an advantage for themselves. 
  That strategy appeared to gain potency on Friday when the president attacked his own Federal Reserve chairman, escalated hostilities with China over tariffs and demanded that American companies stop doing business with the Chinese. It was a day of stunning economic tumult that sent stocks plunging, which the president then joked about in a tweet.
  Democrats quickly cited the day's developments to press the case that Mr. Trump was losing his grip on economic policy.
  ''Donald Trump has no strategy or plan,'' Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts wrote on Twitter on Friday night. ''His reckless actions drove his own companies into bankruptcy -- now they threaten the global economy and increase the risk of a recession that will hit working families hardest.''
  Campaigning in New Hampshire on Saturday, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said the trade war with China was ''blowing up.'' He portrayed the administration as ''falling apart'' on the economy, and pointed to economic warning signs in the bond market and manufacturing.
  ''The simple truth is President Trump is in trouble and he knows it,'' Mr. Biden added.
  Until this month, Democratic candidates had taken a more calibrated approach to talking about the economy. They have asked voters to look past the data points that Mr. Trump has touted -- benchmarks like the lowest unemployment rate in 50 years and a surging stock market -- and have pushed the argument that working-class Americans were not benefiting despite the positive signs. Candidates proposing ambitious change, like Ms. Warren and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, have focused on structural inequalities and framed their positions in term of fairness and dignity, rather than raw economic indicators.
  [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.]
  They have also prioritized other issues while hammering Mr. Trump for his divisive policies and personality. Democrats unveiled plans to combat white supremacy and hate crimes in the wake of a mass shooting in El Paso, to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions driving climate change, to improve mental health care in America and to help Native American tribes.
  Mr. Trump has regularly proclaimed on Twitter that the economy under his administration is ''the greatest'' or ''the best.'' While economic data show the economy is slowing down, it is still growing. Average wages are growing faster under Mr. Trump than they did under President Barack Obama. Polls have consistently shown voters rate Mr. Trump's performance on economic issues higher than they rate his performance over all.
  But this month, the bond market signaled a possible recession through what is called a yield-curve inversion, and stock markets have churned over the turmoil with China, prompting Mr. Trump to raise, then quickly drop, ideas for additional tax cuts to stimulate growth.
  While the election is still more than 14 months away, these developments suggest that the overall direction of the economy could become more of a liability for Mr. Trump. Polling for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey this month found that nearly three in five Americans -- and seven in 10 independents -- are worried about the national economy, regardless of how their personal finances are faring.
  ''I think the economy is in a very risky place right now, and every day that goes by, Donald Trump makes it worse,'' Ms. Warren said last weekend in South Carolina. ''He makes it worse with his unpredictability.''
  ''There are a lot of danger signs right now in this economy, and I'm very worried,'' she added.
  The Trump campaign said Democrats were trying to frighten voters with warnings about the economy.
  ''President Trump's policies, including the most aggressive deregulatory agenda ever and the Trump tax cuts, have boosted paychecks, strengthened our labor market and provided over a million more jobs than job seekers,'' Erin Perrine, a spokeswoman for the Trump campaign, said in a statement. ''The entire field of socialist Democrats are rooting for a recession and their ridiculously price-tagged policies would certainly tank our booming economy.''
  Even before Mr. Trump's stream of invective against China on Friday, a few Democratic contenders were beginning to make a shift toward a more robust discussion of the economy. Ms. Warren released a plan last month warning that recession threats were building. Former Representative John Delaney of Maryland announced a ''renewed focus'' on the economy this past week, citing damage from the trade war with China. Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado released an economic plan on Wednesday that included measures to automatically boost safety net spending in times of a downturn.
  Leading candidates such as Ms. Warren, Mr. Sanders and Mr. Biden face challenges in deciding how much to focus on immediate economic threats. Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders have long criticized American trade policy, in the same vein as Mr. Trump. Every top candidate is proposing tax increases -- which could be difficult to push through Congress in a time of contracting growth -- to fund expanded government programs, like universal health care and free college tuition.
  There are also tensions over what strategy to adopt: Some Democrats believe their best arguments to win the White House next year would be to focus on Mr. Trump's temperament and divisiveness, and on issues like race and immigration, in hopes of winning key swing voters like suburban white women.
  Mr. Trump has accused Democrats of trying to ''will'' the economy to be bad so that they could gain an advantage in the 2020 election. But Democrats have been measured in how they talk about the subject.
  ''I don't really see it as political,'' Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota said. ''I'm worried about those workers out there, and people that may be losing their jobs if there's a downturn.''
  [Here's the latest data on who's leading the race to be the Democratic nominee.]
  Democratic contenders have been more aggressive in accusing Mr. Trump of undermining growth -- particularly with his trade policies -- than in proposing plans to revive it should a recession hit.
  Few candidates have thus far proposed spending increases, tax cuts or other measures designed as immediate economic stimulus. Senator Kamala Harris of California has built her economic platform around a middle-class tax cut that could deliver an immediate jolt to consumer spending. Mr. Bennet proposes expanding so-called automatic stabilizers that deliver federal aid to struggling Americans when the economy worsens, including sending money directly to individuals when unemployment rises substantially.
  Ms. Warren has a series of plans addressing aspects of the economy, including a broad economic platform that calls for an ''aggressive intervention'' in markets to help American workers. Her plan on averting a recession lays out a series of steps to shore up the economy, such as reducing household debt, monitoring corporate lending and improving the manufacturing sector.
  Most plans remain focused on longer-term issues in the economy. Mr. Sanders on Thursday released a plan to combat climate change that envisioned creating 20 million jobs, and ''ending unemployment'' in doing so. Mr. Biden has a plan to help the rural economy, and his climate change plan envisions boosting growth by investing in clean energy.
  The struggle of American workers, said Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., ''is not something you can solve with a sugar high or a rate cut.''
  He added, ''We've got structural problems in our economy that are leaving far too many people behind, even when the numbers are looking good, let alone when they start to change.''
  The escalating attacks by Democrats in recent weeks recalls the shift the party's candidates made in the fall of 2007, as the housing market worsened and stock markets dived in advance of the 2008 financial crisis.
  Candidates including Mr. Obama, Hillary Clinton and John Edwards started their campaigns attacking President George W. Bush on rising inequality and a ballooning federal budget deficit. By September, they were all turning toward economic storm clouds.
  Mr. Obama gave a speech at the Nasdaq in which he outlined a series of structural reforms, meant to lift workers and to reduce the odds of a future financial crisis. Only later in the campaign, after stocks dropped further and the country fell into recession, did Mr. Obama release a targeted economic stimulus plan.
  So far, relatively few voters in early states like Iowa are demanding answers on how to stoke economic growth in the current conditions.
  ''If there's a recession, Trump loses,'' said Sherri Bogue, a 45-year-old teacher from the Des Moines area. ''It's a little early, right this second, today, to be talking about the recession.''
  But Mr. Bennet suggested the time for a full-fledged debate on the economy may come sooner rather than later.
  ''I would say that the president's trade war has had a tremendous effect on creating the sense that there's a recession around the corner,'' Mr. Bennet said in an interview. ''I don't have a crystal ball, but I think it's more likely than not that we will be having that conversation a few months from now.''

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/24/us/politics/democrats-economy-2020-trade.html

Graphic

 
PHOTOS: Economic turmoil may give the Democratic front-runners, from top, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senators Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, an opening to attack President Trump on what has been a strength. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELIZABETH FRANTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22)       

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document


Hong Kong, G7, Kashmir: Your Monday Briefing
The New York Times 
August 25, 2019 Sunday 18:17 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1677 words
Byline: Alisha Haridasani Gupta
Highlight: Trade war shadows G7 summit.
Body


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
We’re covering another flare-up of violence in Hong Kong, mass detentions in Kashmir and child jockeys in Indonesia.
U.S.-China tensions shadow G7 summit
President Trump’s flip-flop on his trade war with China hung over the Group of 7 summit in Biarritz, France, dominating headlines and catching America’s closest allies off guard.
Beforehand, the president asserted he had the power to force all U.S. companies to leave China, citing a law meant to isolate criminal regimes. The idea shook markets and was denounced by both Chinese officials and American business leaders.
But Mr. Trump appeared to soften, saying he has “second thoughts about everything.” White House officials said he meant he should have acted even more forcefully against China. 
Analysis: Experts say that Mr. Trump does, in fact, have the authority to pressure companies to pull out of China, but that doing so would be both destructive and impractical.
 G7 updates: Mr. Trump praised the new British prime minister, Boris Johnson, calling him “the right man” for Brexit and promising a “very big trade deal” with the U.S. 
Mr. Trump and Shinzo Abe, Japan’s prime minister, said they were near a trade deal. 
Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, made a surprise visit, at the invitation of France. 
G7 leaders appeared to be nearing an agreement on fighting the fires in Brazil’s Amazon rain forest. Follow our live coverage of the G7.
Hong Kong police escalate response to protests
Six police officers on Sunday drew their pistols and one fired a warning shot after protesters had put their lives in danger, said a police spokeswoman in an overnight news conference.
“The escalating illegal and violent acts of radical protesters are not only outrageous, they also push Hong Kong to the verge of a very dangerous situation,” the police said in a statement.
 The police fired rounds of tear gas and rubber bullets and, for the first time since the protests started, used water cannon trucks against protesters, who threw bricks and firebombs.
Related: An employee of the British consulate in Hong Kong, Simon Cheung, who had been detained in China for weeks, has been released, the police said on Saturday. Chinese authorities said Mr. Cheung confessed to unspecified unlawful activities.
As Amazon burns, Europe steps up
Fires in Brazil’s rain forest triggered a swift international response, with European leaders leading the charge.
President Emmanuel Macron threatened to kill a major trade deal between Europe and South America and sharply criticized Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, a climate change skeptic. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said the fires would be a central issue at the G7 summit. Other leaders, environmentalists and celebrities called for a boycott of the country. 
A chastened Mr. Bolsonaro, whose administration initially blamed the fires on environmentalists trying to embarrass the country, began sending the military to combat the fires.
Analysis: The E.U. actions against Brazil presented the bloc as the world’s “green superpower,” as one expert put it.
Background: Fires in the Amazon are common this time of year as newly cleared land is readied for crops or cattle-grazing, but Mr. Bolsonaro’s disdain for strict environmental policies has emboldened miners, loggers and farmers. Satellite images show that the number of fires increased sharply this year. 
Related: Bolivia’s president, Evo Morales, said he would accept international aid to fight record-breaking wildfires in his country, most also believed connected to agricultural clearance. 
South Korean military drills add to strains with Japan
The South Korean military on Sunday kicked off its two-day biannual military exercises on the islets of Dokdo. They are also claimed by Japan, which calls them Takeshima.
The drills — aimed at demonstrating South Korea’s control of the islets — began just days after the government in Seoul abandoned an intelligence sharing agreement with Tokyo, exacerbating tensions already in their worst state in years.
Related: North Korea launched two short-range missiles on Saturday — its seventh weapons test in a month.
If you have 8 minutes, this is worth it
India’s mass detentions in Kashmir
In the days before and after the Indian government revoked the territory’s special status, an estimated 2,000 people — including business leaders, human rights defenders, elected representatives, teachers, and students as young as 14 — were arrested. They have no access to lawyers, and no idea of the charges against them or how long they will be held.
Political analysts say the mass roundup was the final piece of a detailed plan that Mr. Modi’s government set into motion last year. 
Here’s what else is happening
Nissan: As the Japanese carmaker builds an increasingly scathing case against its former chief, Carlos Ghosn, it has made public several management failures that provide fodder for investors in the U.S. to sue.
British Airways: The airline said several flights in September had been canceled because of planned strikes, then hours later said the flights wouldn’t be canceled after all, confusing and infuriating customers.
Brexit: Several British companies, including the one behind the popular Peppa Pig character, are still an attractive target for investors, despite the uncertainty around the county’s withdrawal from the E.U. 
Iran: Tehran residents, particularly the wealthy, have started hiring ambulances to cut through traffic-choked streets, an illegal trend that has prompted a widespread backlash.
U.S.: Amid increased immigration enforcement, restaurants, which rely heavily on undocumented labor, are facing a fraught choice: fire trusted employees or risk prosecution.
Glasgow University: The university, one of the oldest in Britain, has been exploring its deep links to donors who benefited from the slave trade. Now, “in the spirit of reparative justice,” it has pledged to raise about $24.5 million over 20 years to fund broad research on slavery. 
Prince Andrew: Queen Elizabeth II’s second son, whose long friendship with the financier Jeffrey Epstein is under intensifying scrutiny, denied knowing or seeing the sexual trafficking and exploitation of underage girls.
Snapshot: Above, children aged 5 to 10 in a professional race on the Indonesian island of Sumbawa. The longstanding use of child jockeys there has been condemned as child abuse.
PGA: Six people were injured when lightening struck a golf course twice during the third round of the Tour Championship on Saturday, prompting organizers to stop play for the day.
Obituary: Sidney Rittenberg, 98, a U.S. soldier who stayed in China for 35 years after World War II, serving as a dedicated aide to Chairman Mao Zedong. After being incarcerated twice on espionage charges, he became disillusioned with Communism and moved back to the U.S., where he advised companies seeking to capitalize on China’s booming economy. 
What we’re reading: This from CNN. Lynda Richardson, a Travel editor, writes: “Here’s a fascinating quiz about the most effective — and often surprising — ways that individuals, policymakers and businesses can curb climate change. Even if you get just about everything wrong, you’ll learn a lot.”
Now, a break from the news
Cook: Chocolate pudding made with oat milk has the plushest texture. 
Listen: “Lover,” Taylor Swift’s seventh album, is “a recalibration and a reaffirmation of old strengths,”            writes our critic. 
Read: “If,” a history of Rudyard Kipling’s first visit to the U.S., in 1889, is among 10 new books we recommend. 
Go: Paris’s theaters are quiet in August — but in bars and nightclubs, drag shows are booming.
Smarter Living: The skies are getting bumpier, thanks to climate change. But experts say that severe turbulence remains a very rare occurrence, and airlines try to choose routes to avoid any at all. Still, remain buckled up throughout your flight, and just remember that, as one Delta executive said, “Modern aircraft are developed and tested to sustain any level of conceivable turbulence.”
And we also look at the ups and downs of digitally keeping tabs on your home when you’re on vacation.
And now for the Back Story on …
Territorial purchases 
Last week, Denmark’s prime minister dismissed President Trump’s interest in buying Greenland as “absurd.” He didn’t it take kindly.
In fact, the U.S. has acquired a great deal of territory through monetary means, though most of the big buys came long ago. The Louisiana Purchase from France in 1803 added what we now call Louisiana, and also all or part of 13 other states, including the Dakotas.
In 1867, Secretary of State William Seward negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia, which some Americans denounced as “Seward’s Folly.”
The U.S. bought land from Denmark, too.
During World War I, fears that Germany might secure the Danish Virgin Islands renewed the U.S.’s longstanding interest in them. The Danes had been trying to get rid of the Caribbean islands since the mid-1800s, because their lucrative plantations had collapsed after a slave revolt forced the true enactment of the official abolishment of slavery in the colony.
Denmark resisted a deal without provisions for the population, but agreed to sell after President Woodrow Wilson’s secretary of state implied the U.S. might occupy the islands.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha
Thank you
To Mark Josephson and Eleanor Stanford for the break from the news. Will Dudding, an assistant in the Standards Department, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.
P.S.
 We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode introduces “1619,” a new audio series. 
 Here’s our            Mini Crossword, and a clue: Clumsy Disney dog (5 letters).            You can find all our puzzles here. 
 The New York Times’s R&amp;D Team shared their            research on smart speakers on the Times Open site, which collects accounts from those making our digital products. 
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Hong Kong, G7, Kashmir: Your Monday Briefing
The New York Times 
August 25, 2019 Sunday 06:13 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1675 words
Byline: Alisha Haridasani Gupta
Highlight: Trade war shadows G7 summit.
Body


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
We’re covering another flare-up of violence in Hong Kong, mass detentions in Kashmir and child jockeys in Indonesia.
U.S.-China tensions shadow G7 summit
President Trump’s flip-flop on his trade war with China hung over the Group of 7 summit in Biarritz, France, dominating headlines and catching America’s closest allies off guard.
Beforehand, the president asserted he had the power to force all U.S. companies to leave China, citing a law meant to isolate criminal regimes. The idea shook markets and was denounced by both Chinese officials and American business leaders.
But Mr. Trump appeared to soften, saying he has “second thoughts about everything.” White House officials said he meant he should have acted even more forcefully against China. 
Analysis: Experts say that Mr. Trump does, in fact, have the authority to pressure companies to pull out of China, but that doing so would be both destructive and impractical.
 G7 updates: Mr. Trump praised the new British prime minister, Boris Johnson, calling him “the right man” for Brexit and promising a “very big trade deal” with the U.S. 
Mr. Trump and Shinzo Abe, Japan’s prime minister, said they were near a trade deal. 
Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, made a surprise visit, at the invitation of France. 
G7 leaders appeared to be nearing an agreement on fighting the fires in Brazil’s Amazon rain forest. Follow our live coverage of the G7.
Hong Kong police escalate response to protests
Six police officers on Sunday drew their pistols and one fired a warning shot after protesters had put their lives in danger, said a police spokeswoman in an overnight news conference.
“The escalating illegal and violent acts of radical protesters are not only outrageous, they also push Hong Kong to the verge of a very dangerous situation,” the police said in a statement.
 The police fired rounds of tear gas and rubber bullets and, for the first time since the protests started, used water cannon trucks against protesters, who threw bricks and firebombs.
Related: An employee of the British consulate in Hong Kong, Simon Cheng, who had been detained in China for weeks, has been released, the police said on Saturday. Chinese authorities said Mr. Cheng confessed to unspecified unlawful activities.
As Amazon burns, Europe steps up
Fires in Brazil’s rain forest triggered a swift international response, with European leaders leading the charge.
President Emmanuel Macron threatened to kill a major trade deal between Europe and South America and sharply criticized Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, a climate change skeptic. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said the fires would be a central issue at the G7 summit. Other leaders, environmentalists and celebrities called for a boycott of the country. 
A chastened Mr. Bolsonaro, whose administration initially blamed the fires on environmentalists trying to embarrass the country, began sending the military to combat the fires.
Analysis: The E.U. actions against Brazil presented the bloc as the world’s “green superpower,” as one expert put it.
Background: Fires in the Amazon are common this time of year as newly cleared land is readied for crops or cattle-grazing, but Mr. Bolsonaro’s disdain for strict environmental policies has emboldened miners, loggers and farmers. Satellite images show that the number of fires increased sharply this year. 
Related: Bolivia’s president, Evo Morales, said he would accept international aid to fight record-breaking wildfires in his country, most also believed connected to agricultural clearance. 
South Korean military drills add to strains with Japan
The South Korean military on Sunday kicked off its two-day biannual military exercises on the islets of Dokdo. They are also claimed by Japan, which calls them Takeshima.
The drills — aimed at demonstrating South Korea’s control of the islets — began just days after the government in Seoul abandoned an intelligence sharing agreement with Tokyo, exacerbating tensions already in their worst state in years.
Related: North Korea launched two short-range missiles on Saturday — its seventh weapons test in a month.
If you have 8 minutes, this is worth it
India’s mass detentions in Kashmir
In the days before and after the Indian government revoked the territory’s special status, an estimated 2,000 people — including business leaders, human rights defenders, elected representatives, teachers, and students as young as 14 — were arrested. They have no access to lawyers, and no idea of the charges against them or how long they will be held.
Political analysts say the mass roundup was the final piece of a detailed plan that Mr. Modi’s government set into motion last year. 
Here’s what else is happening
Nissan: As the Japanese carmaker builds an increasingly scathing case against its former chief, Carlos Ghosn, it has made public several management failures that provide fodder for investors in the U.S. to sue.
British Airways: The airline said several flights in September had been canceled because of planned strikes, then hours later said the flights wouldn’t be canceled after all, confusing and infuriating customers.
Brexit: Several British companies, including the one behind the popular Peppa Pig character, are still an attractive target for investors, despite the uncertainty around the county’s withdrawal from the E.U. 
Iran: Tehran residents, particularly the wealthy, have started hiring ambulances to cut through traffic-choked streets, an illegal trend that has prompted a widespread backlash.
U.S.: Amid increased immigration enforcement, restaurants, which rely heavily on undocumented labor, are facing a fraught choice: fire trusted employees or risk prosecution.
Glasgow University: The university, one of the oldest in Britain, has been exploring its deep links to donors who benefited from the slave trade. Now, “in the spirit of reparative justice,” it has pledged to raise about $24.5 million over 20 years to fund broad research on slavery. 
Prince Andrew: Queen Elizabeth II’s second son, whose long friendship with the financier Jeffrey Epstein is under intensifying scrutiny, denied knowing or seeing the sexual trafficking and exploitation of underage girls.
Snapshot: Above, children aged 5 to 10 in a professional race on the Indonesian island of Sumbawa. The longstanding use of child jockeys there has been condemned as child abuse.
PGA: Six people were injured when lightning struck a golf course twice during the third round of the Tour Championship on Saturday, prompting organizers to stop play for the day.
Obituary: Sidney Rittenberg, 98, a U.S. soldier who stayed in China for 35 years after World War II, serving as a dedicated aide to Chairman Mao Zedong. After being incarcerated twice on espionage charges, he became disillusioned with Communism and moved back to the U.S., where he advised companies seeking to capitalize on China’s booming economy. 
What we’re reading: This from CNN. Lynda Richardson, a Travel editor, writes: “Here’s a fascinating quiz about the most effective — and often surprising — ways that individuals, policymakers and businesses can curb climate change. Even if you get just about everything wrong, you’ll learn a lot.”
Now, a break from the news
Cook: Chocolate pudding made with oat milk has the plushest texture. 
Listen: “Lover,” Taylor Swift’s seventh album, is “a recalibration and a reaffirmation of old strengths,”            writes our critic. 
Read: “If,” a history of Rudyard Kipling’s first visit to the U.S., in 1889, is among 10 new books we recommend. 
Go: Paris’s theaters are quiet in August — but in bars and nightclubs, drag shows are booming.
Smarter Living: The skies are getting bumpier, thanks to climate change. But experts say that severe turbulence remains a very rare occurrence, and airlines try to choose routes to avoid any at all. Still, remain buckled up throughout your flight, and just remember that, as one Delta executive said, “Modern aircraft are developed and tested to sustain any level of conceivable turbulence.”
And we also look at the ups and downs of digitally keeping tabs on your home when you’re on vacation.
And now for the Back Story on …
Territorial purchases 
Last week, Denmark’s prime minister dismissed President Trump’s interest in buying Greenland as “absurd.” He didn’t it take kindly.
In fact, the U.S. has acquired a great deal of territory through monetary means, though most of the big buys came long ago. The Louisiana Purchase from France in 1803 added about 828,000 square miles of land that eventually created all or part of 15 states. 
In 1867, Secretary of State William Seward negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia, which some Americans denounced as “Seward’s Folly.”
The U.S. bought land from Denmark, too.
During World War I, fears that Germany might secure the Danish Virgin Islands renewed the U.S.’s longstanding interest in them. The Danes had been trying to get rid of the Caribbean islands since the mid-1800s, because their lucrative plantations had collapsed after a slave revolt forced the true enactment of the official abolishment of slavery in the colony.
Denmark resisted a deal without provisions for the population, but agreed to sell after President Woodrow Wilson’s secretary of state implied the U.S. might occupy the islands.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha
Thank you
To Mark Josephson and Eleanor Stanford for the break from the news. Will Dudding, an assistant in the Standards Department, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.
P.S.
 We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode introduces “1619,” a new audio series. 
 Here’s our            Mini Crossword, and a clue: Clumsy Disney dog (5 letters).            You can find all our puzzles here. 
 The New York Times’s R&amp;D Team shared their            research on smart speakers on the Times Open site, which collects accounts from those making our digital products. 
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


Hong Kong, G7, Kashmir: Your Monday Briefing
The New York Times 
August 25, 2019 Sunday 04:57 EST


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1676 words
Byline: Alisha Haridasani Gupta
Highlight: Trade war shadows G7 summit.
Body


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
We’re covering another flare-up of violence in Hong Kong, mass detentions in Kashmir and child jockeys in Indonesia.
U.S.-China tensions shadow G7 summit
President Trump’s flip-flop on his trade war with China hung over the Group of 7 summit in Biarritz, France, dominating headlines and catching America’s closest allies off guard.
Beforehand, the president asserted he had the power to force all U.S. companies to leave China, citing a law meant to isolate criminal regimes. The idea shook markets and was denounced by both Chinese officials and American business leaders.
But Mr. Trump appeared to soften, saying he has “second thoughts about everything.” White House officials said he meant he should have acted even more forcefully against China. 
Analysis: Experts say that Mr. Trump does, in fact, have the authority to pressure companies to pull out of China, but that doing so would be both destructive and impractical.
 G7 updates: Mr. Trump praised the new British prime minister, Boris Johnson, calling him “the right man” for Brexit and promising a “very big trade deal” with the U.S. 
Mr. Trump and Shinzo Abe, Japan’s prime minister, said they were near a trade deal. 
Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, made a surprise visit, at the invitation of France. 
G7 leaders appeared to be nearing an agreement on fighting the fires in Brazil’s Amazon rain forest. Follow our live coverage of the G7.
Hong Kong police escalate response to protests
Six police officers on Sunday drew their pistols and one fired a warning shot after protesters had put their lives in danger, said a police spokeswoman in an overnight news conference.
“The escalating illegal and violent acts of radical protesters are not only outrageous, they also push Hong Kong to the verge of a very dangerous situation,” the police said in a statement.
 The police fired rounds of tear gas and rubber bullets and, for the first time since the protests started, used water cannon trucks against protesters, who threw bricks and firebombs.
Related: An employee of the British consulate in Hong Kong, Simon Cheng, who had been detained in China for weeks, has been released, the police said on Saturday. Chinese authorities said Mr. Cheng confessed to unspecified unlawful activities.
As Amazon burns, Europe steps up
Fires in Brazil’s rain forest triggered a swift international response, with European leaders leading the charge.
President Emmanuel Macron threatened to kill a major trade deal between Europe and South America and sharply criticized Brazil’s president, Jair Bolsonaro, a climate change skeptic. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said the fires would be a central issue at the G7 summit. Other leaders, environmentalists and celebrities called for a boycott of the country. 
A chastened Mr. Bolsonaro, whose administration initially blamed the fires on environmentalists trying to embarrass the country, began sending the military to combat the fires.
Analysis: The E.U. actions against Brazil presented the bloc as the world’s “green superpower,” as one expert put it.
Background: Fires in the Amazon are common this time of year as newly cleared land is readied for crops or cattle-grazing, but Mr. Bolsonaro’s disdain for strict environmental policies has emboldened miners, loggers and farmers. Satellite images show that the number of fires increased sharply this year. 
Related: Bolivia’s president, Evo Morales, said he would accept international aid to fight record-breaking wildfires in his country, most also believed connected to agricultural clearance. 
South Korean military drills add to strains with Japan
The South Korean military on Sunday kicked off its two-day biannual military exercises on the islets of Dokdo. They are also claimed by Japan, which calls them Takeshima.
The drills — aimed at demonstrating South Korea’s control of the islets — began just days after the government in Seoul abandoned an intelligence sharing agreement with Tokyo, exacerbating tensions already in their worst state in years.
Related: North Korea launched two short-range missiles on Saturday — its seventh weapons test in a month.
If you have 8 minutes, this is worth it
India’s mass detentions in Kashmir
In the days before and after the Indian government revoked the territory’s special status, an estimated 2,000 people — including business leaders, human rights defenders, elected representatives, teachers, and students as young as 14 — were arrested. They have no access to lawyers, and no idea of the charges against them or how long they will be held.
Political analysts say the mass roundup was the final piece of a detailed plan that Mr. Modi’s government set into motion last year. 
Here’s what else is happening
Nissan: As the Japanese carmaker builds an increasingly scathing case against its former chief, Carlos Ghosn, it has made public several management failures that provide fodder for investors in the U.S. to sue.
British Airways: The airline said several flights in September had been canceled because of planned strikes, then hours later said the flights wouldn’t be canceled after all, confusing and infuriating customers.
Brexit: Several British companies, including the one behind the popular Peppa Pig character, are still an attractive target for investors, despite the uncertainty around the county’s withdrawal from the E.U. 
Iran: Tehran residents, particularly the wealthy, have started hiring ambulances to cut through traffic-choked streets, an illegal trend that has prompted a widespread backlash.
U.S.: Amid increased immigration enforcement, restaurants, which rely heavily on undocumented labor, are facing a fraught choice: fire trusted employees or risk prosecution.
Glasgow University: The university, one of the oldest in Britain, has been exploring its deep links to donors who benefited from the slave trade. Now, “in the spirit of reparative justice,” it has pledged to raise about $24.5 million over 20 years to fund broad research on slavery. 
Prince Andrew: Queen Elizabeth II’s second son, whose long friendship with the financier Jeffrey Epstein is under intensifying scrutiny, denied knowing or seeing the sexual trafficking and exploitation of underage girls.
Snapshot: Above, children aged 5 to 10 in a professional race on the Indonesian island of Sumbawa. The longstanding use of child jockeys there has been condemned as child abuse.
PGA: Six people were injured when lightning struck a golf course twice during the third round of the Tour Championship on Saturday, prompting organizers to stop play for the day.
Obituary: Sidney Rittenberg, 98, a U.S. soldier who stayed in China for 35 years after World War II, serving as a dedicated aide to Chairman Mao Zedong. After being incarcerated twice on espionage charges, he became disillusioned with Communism and moved back to the U.S., where he advised companies seeking to capitalize on China’s booming economy. 
What we’re reading: This from CNN. Lynda Richardson, a Travel editor, writes: “Here’s a fascinating quiz about the most effective — and often surprising — ways that individuals, policymakers and businesses can curb climate change. Even if you get just about everything wrong, you’ll learn a lot.”
Now, a break from the news
Cook: Chocolate pudding made with oat milk has the plushest texture. 
Listen: “Lover,” Taylor Swift’s seventh album, is “a recalibration and a reaffirmation of old strengths,”            writes our critic. 
Read: “If,” a history of Rudyard Kipling’s first visit to the U.S., in 1889, is among 10 new books we recommend. 
Go: Paris’s theaters are quiet in August — but in bars and nightclubs, drag shows are booming.
Smarter Living: The skies are getting bumpier, thanks to climate change. But experts say that severe turbulence remains a very rare occurrence, and airlines try to choose routes to avoid any at all. Still, remain buckled up throughout your flight, and just remember that, as one Delta executive said, “Modern aircraft are developed and tested to sustain any level of conceivable turbulence.”
And we also look at the ups and downs of digitally keeping tabs on your home when you’re on vacation.
And now for the Back Story on …
Territorial purchases 
Last week, Denmark’s prime minister dismissed President Trump’s interest in buying Greenland as “absurd.” He didn’t it take kindly.
In fact, the U.S. has acquired a great deal of territory through monetary means, though most of the big buys came long ago. The Louisiana Purchase from France in 1803 added what we now call Louisiana, and also all or part of 13 other states, including the Dakotas.
In 1867, Secretary of State William Seward negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia, which some Americans denounced as “Seward’s Folly.”
The U.S. bought land from Denmark, too.
During World War I, fears that Germany might secure the Danish Virgin Islands renewed the U.S.’s longstanding interest in them. The Danes had been trying to get rid of the Caribbean islands since the mid-1800s, because their lucrative plantations had collapsed after a slave revolt forced the true enactment of the official abolishment of slavery in the colony.
Denmark resisted a deal without provisions for the population, but agreed to sell after President Woodrow Wilson’s secretary of state implied the U.S. might occupy the islands.
That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.
— Alisha
Thank you
To Mark Josephson and Eleanor Stanford for the break from the news. Will Dudding, an assistant in the Standards Department, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.
P.S.
 We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode introduces “1619,” a new audio series. 
 Here’s our            Mini Crossword, and a clue: Clumsy Disney dog (5 letters).            You can find all our puzzles here. 
 The New York Times’s R&amp;D Team shared their            research on smart speakers on the Times Open site, which collects accounts from those making our digital products. 
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY  FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document


The Peaches Are Sweet, but Growing Them Isn't
The New York Times
August 25, 2019 Sunday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 3
Length: 1247 words
Byline: By MIRIAM PAWEL
Body


DEL REY, Calif. -- When I first visited this tiny farm town to pick peaches, I did not expect to return. Certainly not every summer. Yet in July, here I was again, in triple-degree heat, for the ninth straight year of a pilgrimage with friends to an orchard just south of Fresno, near the geographic center of California.
We come to harvest peaches from a tree we ''adopted'' on the farm of 65-year-old David Mas Masumoto, a third-generation Japanese-American farmer who began his adoption program to connect people to their food and to find homes for old-fashioned fruit too delicate for commercial sale. He has succeeded in ways he could not have foreseen. We are drawn back each summer by the intense flavor of the heirloom fruit, but even more by the unexpected attachments that have deepened over the harvests: bonds among members of our multigenerational team, ties with the Masumoto family, and a connection to our decades-old Elberta peach tree. 
  This year in particular has underscored the most profound lessons of the annual trek, which has become a window into the changing nature of a perpetually fragile enterprise in a perilous era. There is no longer any ''normal'' for a Central Valley farmer.
  Climate change has brought extremes in heat and precipitation that play havoc with the harvest season, now elongated and unpredictable. And farm labor, long one of the few factors growers could control, has become equally unpredictable, as immigration crackdowns cause shortages and fear suffuses the largely undocumented Mexican farmworker community in the state.
  When we return next year, we will see one of the more tangible consequences: Our peach tree will be two-thirds its former height. All trees on the 80-acre farm will be pruned to make them easier to be cared for by women, who have become by necessity the preferred workers for this small farm during a labor shortage that shows no sign of abating. The Masumotos hope to turn the challenge into an opportunity by shaping the trees to produce fewer, larger peaches, which command a higher price.
  Farmers are accustomed to forces beyond their control -- freakish storms, droughts, tariffs, recessions, consumer habits. Farms adapt, or they die. The Masumotos would typically hire a dozen workers during peak harvest; this year they picked their entire crop with four, plus the family -- Mas Masumoto, an organic entrepreneur and author; his wife, Marcy, an educator and school board member; their daughter, Nikiko, a queer feminist performance artist and farmer; and their son, Korio, who just graduated from Fresno State.
  The Masumotos are a California story, unique in their blend of genuine down-to-earth warmth and rock star status, universal in their immigrant roots, optimism and innovation.
  Mr. Masumoto's grandfather was part of a wave of Japanese immigrants in the early 20th century who quickly moved from working in the fields to running farms. By 1940, more than 5,000 Japanese-operated farms produced 42 percent of the state's crops, despite racist exclusionary laws that made owning property difficult. Then came President Franklin Roosevelt's 1942 order to intern all people of Japanese ancestry in a wide swath of the West Coast designated a theater of war. Mr. Masumoto's parents were among the more than 100,000 -- mostly Californians, most citizens -- rounded up and imprisoned. They did not talk to their children about the trauma.
  In 1987, the heirloom peach trees that Mr. Masumoto's father had lovingly planted were almost lost. Mr. Masumoto wrote an angry op-ed essay that year in The Los Angeles Times in which he explained his decision to bulldoze and burn the trees because consumers shunned the succulent amber peaches they produced in favor of red, tasteless orbs bred for durability and appearance. ''No one wants a peach variety with wonderful taste,'' he wrote.
  The essay prompted an outpouring that persuaded Mr. Masumoto to hold on to his Sun Crest trees and unleashed a cult following for peaches that became featured on the menu of restaurants like Berkeley's Chez Panisse.
  Although she grew up on the farm and never missed a harvest, Nikiko Masumoto had no intention to return home when she went off to the University of California at Berkeley, following her father's footsteps. But in 2011, she followed him again, moving back home to carry on the family legacy, convinced that farming could be a vehicle for social activism and civic responsibility.
  She will inherit the challenge of responding to climate change. Last summer set records in Fresno: July 2018 was the hottest month in history, with 30 consecutive days in which the temperature hit or topped 100 degrees. The last five years are the warmest on record in Fresno. Before that came two years of severe drought, among the driest ever, followed by torrential rains.
  Mr. Masumoto believes the trees have embarked on their own mysterious, evolutionary strategy for survival. He and his daughter are experimenting with ways to irrigate with less water, which will become an even scarcer commodity when the state's first limits on groundwater pumping go into effect in the 2020s. They have ripped out unproductive vines -- they also cultivate a small crop of organic grapes for raisins -- and not replaced them, leaving about 20 percent of their land fallow.
  It's also getting more difficult to keep workers in an increasingly competitive market. The fear among workers without legal papers is so great that last year a family backed out on the Masumotos at the last minute, reasoning they would be safer working for a labor contractor on a large farm that would provide greater anonymity.
  In an age of such uncertainty, there is something reassuring about the land, and the trees, which persevere. The half-dozen members of our team converge on the Central Valley from Los Angeles, Salinas, Sacramento and the Bay Area, a mix of journalists, lawyers, nonprofit executives, with a new recruit or two each year to be inducted into the familiar routines. There are the same jokes, the same arguments, the same Friday night barbecues, which started in the back of a hotel in the shadow of Highway 99. And there's the tale of the team member who forsook us one year to hike the John Muir trail -- and was airlifted out after a medical emergency. ''The Peach Gods were angry!'' Mas Masumoto roared, with his wide, mischievous grin.
  The harvests become a way to mark the years. Since our first season, Mas had heart bypass surgery. He, Marcy and Nikiko published a cookbook. Nikiko gave a TEDx talk, performed at the White House and was married this spring, in the orchard between Rows 7 and 8.
  The youngest on our team was in high school when we first came to Del Rey; now she works for a food-gleaning organization. Team members retired, changed jobs, wrote books. The daughter of a founding member took her father's place. The first grandchild was born this summer.
  There are no endings in farming, Mas Masumoto says. There is just the next season.
  Miriam Pawel is the author of ''The Browns of California: The Family Dynasty That Transformed a State and Shaped a Nation'' and a contributing opinion writer.
  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com
  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/24/opinion/sunday/peaches-california-climate-change.html

Graphic

 
PHOTO: David Mas Masumoto inspecting peaches in his orchard in Del Rey, Calif., in 2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GOSIA WOZNIACKA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)       

Load-Date: August 25, 2019


End of Document








| About LexisNexis | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Copyright © 2019 LexisNexis 






Page 5 of 5Justice Dept. Newsletter to Immigration Judges Included an Extremist Blog Post


 


 



Page 8 of 8Immigration at Its Limit? Not for Employers


 


 



Page  of An Heiress, Immigration and the Environment


 


 



Page 13 of 13Shift Against Immigration Lifted a Young Firebrand


 


 



Page 22 of 22How Stephen Miller Seized the Moment to Battle Immigration


 


 



Page 31 of 31Deficit, Immigration, Mongol Derby: Your Wednesday Evening Briefing


 


 



Page 34 of 34Bankrolling the Anti-Immigration Movement


 


 



Page 36 of 36Playing Trump's Immigration Game


 


 



Page 39 of 39In Her Own Words: The Woman Who Bankrolled the Anti-Immigration Movement


 


 



Page 41 of 41On Immigration, the Democrats Are Playing Into Trump’s Hands


 


 








| About LexisNexis | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Copyright © 2019 LexisNexis 






Page 46 of 46Overlooked No More: Lau Sing Kee, War Hero Jailed for Helping Immigrants


 


 



Page 49 of 49Trump Administration Moves to Decertify Outspoken Immigration Judges’ Union


 


 



Page 51 of 51Immigration, Hong Kong, California Highway Patrol: Your Tuesday Briefing


 


 



Page 55 of 55Immigration, Endangered Wildlife Act, Jeffery Epstein: Your Monday Evening Briefing


 


 



Page 59 of 59Texas Democrats Urge G.O.P. to 'Eradicate' Incendiary Rhetoric


 


 



Page 63 of 63Justice Department Newsletter Included Extremist Blog Post


 


 



Page 66 of 66A Health Nightmare Near the Border


 


 



Page 68 of 68Joe Arpaio Says He Will Run Again for Maricopa County Sheriff


 


 



Page 70 of 70Joe Arpaio Says He Will Run Again for Maricopa County Sheriff


 


 



Page  of Joe Arpaio Says He Will Run Again for Maricopa County Sheriff


 


 








| About LexisNexis | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Copyright © 2019 LexisNexis 






Page 76 of 76Republicans Are Studying Obama’s Campaign Playbook


 


 



Page 80 of 80Republicans Are Studying Obama’s Campaign Playbook


 


 



Page 84 of 84The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity; Social Studies


 


 



Page 89 of 89The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity; Social Studies


 


 



Page 94 of 94The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity; Social Studies


 


 



Page 99 of 99The Comedians Challenging Stereotypes About Asian-American Masculinity; Social Studies


 


 



Page 104 of 104Trade War, Andrew Luck, U.S. Open: Your Monday Briefing


 


 



Page 108 of 108Trade War, Andrew Luck, U.S. Open: Your Monday Briefing


 


 



Page 112 of 112Your Monday Briefing


 


 



Page  of Your Monday Briefing


 


 








| About LexisNexis | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Copyright © 2019 LexisNexis 






Page 122 of 122Your Monday Briefing


 


 



Page 126 of 126Your Monday Briefing


 


 



Page 130 of 130Laundry Workers Are Fighting Back


 


 



Page 136 of 136Trump Revives the Jewish Left


 


 



Page 139 of 139Valley of the Dollars


 


 



Page 142 of 142Employers Are Wringing Their Hands


 


 



Page 145 of 145Hiring Is Very Hard for Restaurants These Days. Now They May Have to Fire.


 


 



Page 148 of 148In Aftermath of El Paso Attack, a Reckoning on Texas’s Divisive Political Rhetoric


 


 



Page 152 of 152A Melting Pot of Immigrants, and of Views on Immigration Laws


 


 



Page  of In Wisconsin Swing District, a Range of Views on Immigration


 


 








| About LexisNexis | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Copyright © 2019 LexisNexis 






Page 162 of 162Country Is Full? It's News to Us, Employers Say


 


 



Page 166 of 166G.O.P. Embraced Koch Vision, Until Trump Tossed It All Aside


 


 



Page 170 of 170Migrant Families Facing Detention With No End Date


 


 



Page 174 of 174Coming of Age Amid a Limbo of Prejudice and Restriction


 


 



Page 176 of 176Culture Shock


 


 



Page 178 of 178Democrats Seize on Trade Chaos To Undercut Trump on Economy


 


 



Page 182 of 182Hong Kong, G7, Kashmir: Your Monday Briefing


 


 



Page 186 of 186Hong Kong, G7, Kashmir: Your Monday Briefing


 


 



Page 190 of 190Hong Kong, G7, Kashmir: Your Monday Briefing


 


 



Page 194 of 194The Peaches Are Sweet, but Growing Them Isn't


 


 

